1984: Political Dystopian Classic, George Orwell


the Party could thrust its hand into the past and say of this or that event, IT NEVER HAPPENED—that, surely, was more terrifying than mere torture and death?


‘Who controls the past,’ ran the Party slogan, ‘controls the future: who controls the present controls the past.’


‘Don’t you see that the whole aim of Newspeak is to narrow the range of thought? In the end we shall make thoughtcrime literally impossible, because there will be no words in which to express it.


It was not the man’s brain that was speaking, it was his larynx. The stuff that was coming out of him consisted of words, but it was not speech in the true sense: it was a noise uttered in unconsciousness, like the quacking of a duck.


Until they become conscious they will never rebel, and until after they have rebelled they cannot become conscious.


The Party told you to reject the evidence of your eyes and ears. It was their final, most essential command.


Freedom is the freedom to say that two plus two make four. If that is granted, all else follows.


To hang on from day to day and from week to week, spinning out a present that had no future, seemed an unconquerable instinct, just as one’s lungs will always draw the next breath so long as there is air available.


Every record has been destroyed or falsified, every book has been rewritten, every picture has been repainted, every statue and street and building has been renamed, every date has been altered. And that process is continuing day by day and minute by minute. History has stopped. Nothing exists except an endless present in which the Party is always right.


They simply swallowed everything, and what they swallowed did them no harm, because it left no residue behind,


If he were allowed contact with foreigners he would discover that they are creatures similar to himself and that most of what he has been told about them is lies. The sealed world in which he lives would be broken, and the fear, hatred, and self-righteousness on which his morale depends might evaporate.


The cyclical movement of history was now intelligible, or appeared to be so; and if it was intelligible, then it was alterable.


Besides, in a sense it was all true. It was true that he had been the enemy of the Party, and in the eyes of the Party there was no distinction between the thought and the deed.


If you want a picture of the future, imagine a boot stamping on a human face—for ever.’


A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, James Joyce


The hour when he too would take part in the life of that world seemed drawing near and in secret he began to make ready for the great part which he felt awaited him the nature of which he only dimly apprehended.


Art thou pale for weariness Of climbing heaven and gazing on the earth, Wandering companionless?


Basic Writings of Nietzsche (Modern Library Classics), Friedrich Nietzsche and Walter Kaufmann


To recognize untruth as a condition of life—that certainly means resisting accustomed value feelings in a dangerous way; and a philosophy that risks this would by that token alone place itself beyond good and evil.


One must shed the bad taste of wanting to agree with many. “Good” is no longer good when one’s neighbor mouths it. And how should there be a “common good”! The term contradicts itself: whatever can be common always has little value. In the end it must be as it is and always has been: great things remain for the great, abysses for the profound, nuances and shudders for the refined, and, in brief, all that is rare for the rare.


It may be that until now there has been no more potent means for beautifying man himself than piety: it can turn man into so much art, surface, play of colors, graciousness that his sight no longer makes one suffer.


religion can even be used as a means for obtaining peace from the noise and exertion of cruder forms of government, and purity from the necessary dirt of all politics.


To ordinary human beings, finally—the vast majority who exist for service and the general advantage, and who may exist only for that—religion gives an inestimable contentment with their situation and type, manifold peace of the heart, an ennobling of obedience, one further happiness and sorrow with their peers and something transfiguring and beautifying, something of a justification for the whole everyday character, the whole lowliness, the whole half-brutish poverty of their souls.


It is terrible to die of thirst in the ocean. Do you have to salt your truth so heavily that it does not even—quench thirst any more?


Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. And when you look long into an abyss, the abyss also looks into you.


Whatever is done from love always occurs beyond good and evil.


Talking much about oneself can also be a means to conceal oneself.


The vanity of others offends our taste only when it offends our vanity.


it was a masterpiece of English instinct to make the Sabbath so holy and so boring that the English begin unconsciously to lust again for their work-


Our eye finds it more comfortable to respond to a given stimulus by reproducing once more an image that it has produced many times before, instead of registering what is different and new in an impression.


Suppose someone has flown often in his dreams and finally, as soon as he dreams, he is conscious of his power and art of flight as if it were his privilege, also his characteristic and enviable happiness. He believes himself capable of realizing every kind of arc and angle simply with the lightest impulse; he knows the feeling of a certain divine frivolity, an “upward” without tension and constraint, a “downward” without condescension and humiliation—without gravity! How could a human being who had had such dream experiences and dream habits fail to find that the word “happiness” had a different color and definition in his waking life, too? How could he fail to—desire happiness differently? “Rising” as described by poets must seem to him, compared with this “flying,” too earthbound, muscle-bound, forced, too “grave.”


A third type, however, does not reach the end of his mistrust and desire for having even so: he asks himself whether the woman, when she gives up everything for him, does not possibly do this for a phantom of him. He wants to be known deep down, abysmally deep down, before he is capable of being loved at all; he dares to let himself be fathomed. He feels that his beloved is fully in his possession only when she no longer deceives herself about him, when she loves him just as much for his devilry and hidden insatiability as for his graciousness, patience, and spirituality.


Involuntarily, parents turn children into something similar to themselves—they call that “education.” Deep in her heart, no mother doubts that the child she has borne is her property; no father contests his own right to subject it to his concepts and valuations. Indeed, formerly it seemed fair for fathers (among the ancient Germans, for example) to decide on the life or death of the newborn as they saw fit. And like the father, teachers, classes, priests, and princes still see, even today, in every new human being an unproblematic opportunity for another possession.


The highest and strongest drives, when they break out passionately and drive the individual far above the average and the flats of the herd conscience, wreck the self-confidence of the community, its faith in itself, and it is as if its spine snapped.


But anyone who has really made sacrifices knows that he wanted and got something in return—perhaps something of himself in return for something of himself—that he gave up here in order to have more there, perhaps in order to be more or at least to feel that he was “more.”


It is characteristic of such an unphilosophical race that it clings firmly to Christianity: they need its discipline to become “moralized” and somewhat humanized. The English, being gloomier, more sensual, stronger in will, and more brutal than the Germans, are precisely for that reason more vulgar, also more pious than the Germans: they stand more in need of Christianity.


the whole book represents an effort to rise “beyond” simpleminded agreement and disagreement, beyond the vulgar faith in antithetic values, “beyond good and evil.” The point of that title is not that the author considers himself beyond good and evil in the crudest sense, but it is in part that he is beyond saying such silly things as “the Jews are good” or “the Jews are evil”; or “free spirits” or “scholars” or “virtues” or “honesty” or “humaneness” are “good” or “evil.”


human being who strives for something great considers everyone he meets on his way either as a means or as a delay and obstacle—or as a temporary resting place. His characteristic high-grade graciousness toward his fellow men becomes possible only once he has attained his height and rules.


The problem of those who are waiting.—It requires strokes of luck and much that is incalculable if a higher man in whom the solution of a problem lies dormant is to get around to action in time—to “eruption,” one might say. In the average case it does not happen, and in nooks all over the earth sit men who are waiting, scarcely knowing in what way they are waiting, much less that they are waiting in vain.


Alas, what are you after all, my written and painted thoughts! It was not long ago that you were still so colorful, young, and malicious, full of thorns and secret spices—you made me sneeze and laugh—and now? You have already taken off your novelty, and some of you are ready, I fear, to become truths: they already look so immortal, so pathetically decent, so dull! And has it ever been different? What things do we copy, writing and painting, we mandarins with Chinese brushes, we immortalizers of things that can be written—what are the only things we are able to paint? Alas, always only what is on the verge of withering and losing its fragrance! Alas; always only storms that are passing, exhausted, and feelings that are autumnal and yellow! Alas, always only birds that grew weary of flying and flew astray and now can be caught by hand—by our hand! We immortalize what cannot live and fly much longer—only weary and mellow things! And it is only your afternoon, you, my written and painted thoughts, for which alone I have colors, many colors perhaps, many motley caresses and fifty yellows and browns and greens and reds: but nobody will guess from that how you looked in your morning, you sudden sparks and wonders of my solitude, you my old beloved—wicked thoughts!


For with the priests everything becomes more dangerous, not only cures and remedies, but also arrogance, revenge, acuteness, profligacy, love, lust to rule, virtue, disease—but it is only fair to add that it was on the soil of this essentially dangerous form of human existence, the priestly form, that man first became an interesting animal, that only here did the human soul in a higher sense acquire depth and become evil—and these are the two basic respects in which man has hitherto been superior to other beasts!


To demand of strength that it should not express itself as strength, that it should not be a desire to overcome, a desire to throw down, a desire to become master, a thirst for enemies and resistances and triumphs, is just as absurd as to demand of weakness that it should express itself as strength.


And what do they call that which serves to console them for all the suffering of life—their phantasmagoria of anticipated future bliss? —“What? Do I hear aright? They call that ‘the Last Judgment,’ the coming of their kingdom, of the ‘Kingdom of God’— meanwhile, however, they live ‘in faith,’ ‘in love,’ ‘in hope.’ ” —Enough! Enough!


In faith in what? In love of what? In hope of what?— These weak people—some day or other they too intend to be the strong,


So as to abolish hidden, undetected, unwitnessed suffering from the world and honestly to deny it, one was in the past virtually compelled to invent gods and genii of all the heights and depths, in short something that roams even in secret, hidden places, sees even in the dark, and will not easily let an interesting painful spectacle pass unnoticed. For it was with the aid of such inventions that life then knew how to work the trick which it has always known how to work, that of justifying itself, of justifying its “evil.”


Brave New World, Aldous Huxley


Making ninety-six human beings grow where only one grew before. Progress.


‘Bokanovsky’s Process is one of the major instruments of social stability!’ Major instruments of social stability. Standard men and women; in uniform batches. The whole of a small factory staffed with the products of a single bokanovskified egg.


‘And that,’ put in the Director sententiously, ‘that is the secret of happiness and virtue—liking what you’ve got to do. All conditioning aims at that: making people like their unescapable social destiny.’


Primroses and landscapes, he pointed out, have one grave defect: they are gratuitous. A love of nature keeps no factories busy.


Imagine the folly of allowing people to play elaborate games which do nothing whatever to increase consumption. It’s madness.


Mental excess could produce, for its own purposes, the voluntary blindness and deafness of deliberate solitude, the artificial impotence of asceticism.


Crime and Punishment (Penguin Classics), Fyodor Dostoyevsky and Fuel and and David McDuff


what are people most afraid of? Of doing something new, saying a new word of their own that hasn't been said before – that's what scares them most.


‘poverty is not a sin – that is a true saying. I know that drunkenness is not a virtue, either, and that's an even truer saying. But destitution, dear sir, destitution – that is a sin.


That's the reason for my drinking. I'm looking for feeling and compassion in it … Not revelry do I seek, but pure sorrow … I drink, for I desire to suffer doubly!’


have had a single kind word to say to them, so desolate had his heart become. His soul had suddenly and consciously been affected by a gloomy sense of alienation, compounded with one of an agonizing, infinite solitariness.


He seized hold of the bottle, in which there was enough beer left to fill a whole tumbler, and drank it down with pleasure in one draught, as though he were extinguishing a fire within himself.


You operate on principles as though they were mechanical springs; you don't even dare to turn round of your own accord;


To talk nonsense in one's own way is almost better than to talk a truth that's someone else's; in the first instance you behave like a human being, while in the second you are merely being a parrot!


I can show you the books they have: they put it all down to being “a prey to one's surroundings”2 – and that's it! It's their favourite expression! From that it follows directly that if only society were to be organized sanely, crime would simply disappear, as there would be nothing to protest about and everyone would become virtuous, just like that. Nature isn't taken into consideration, nature is banished, nature is not supposed to exist. The way they see it, it's not mankind which, moving along a historical, living path of development, will finally transmute itself into a sane society, but rather a social system which, having emanated from some mathematical head, will at once reorganize the whole of mankind and in a single instant make it virtuous and free from sin, more speedily than any living process, bypassing any historical or living path! That is why they have such an instinctive dislike of history: “It's nothing but a catalogue of outrages and follies,” they say – and it can all be explained as the result of stupidity! That's why they have such distaste for the living process of life: they don't want the living soul! The living soul demands to live, the living soul isn't obedient to the laws of mechanics, the living soul is suspicious, the living soul is reactionary! No, what they prefer are souls which can be made out of rubber, even if they do have a smell of corpse-flesh – but at any rate they're not alive, they have no will of their own, they're servile, won't rebel! And as a result they've reduced everything to brickwork and the disposition of the rooms and corridors inside a phalanstery!3 Their phalansteries may be ready, but the human nature that would fit them is not yet ready, it wants to live, it hasn't yet completed the vital process, it's not ready for the burial-ground! It's impossible to leap over nature solely by means of logic! Logic may predict three eventualities, but there are a million of them! Snip off the entire million and reduce everything to the question of comfort – that's a very easy solution to the problem! Temptingly obvious, and one needn't even think about it! That's the main thing – that one shouldn't need to think! The whole of life's mystery can be accommodated within two printer's sheets!’


‘The whole point of his article is that the human race is divided into the “ordinary” and the “extraordinary”. The ordinary must live in obedience and do not have the right to break the law, because, well, because they're ordinary, you see. The extraordinary, on the other hand, have the right to commit all sorts of crimes and break the law in all sorts of ways precisely because they're extraordinary.


Those of the first category are always the lords of the present, while those of the second category are the lords of the future. The first conserve the world and increase its population; the second move the world and lead it towards a goal.


‘On the whole there are extremely few people with new ideas, or who are even the merest bit capable of saying something new – so few that it's almost strange. The only thing that's clear is that the order that governs the way in which people come into the world and creates all these categories and subdivisions must be very accurately and precisely determined by some law of nature. This law is, of course, at present unknown to us, but I believe in its existence and think that one day we shall know what it is. The vast mass of people, the human material, exists in the world solely in order at last, by means of a kind of effort, a process that so far remains a mystery to us, involving some strange crossing of generations and races, to muster its strength and bring into the world the one person out of a thousand who is even slightly independent. One person out of ten thousand (I'm talking approximately, by way of illustration) is, perhaps, born with a somewhat higher degree of independence. One out of a hundred thousand, with even more. People of genius are born one out of millions, while the great geniuses, the achievers of humanity, only come into being after many thousands of millions of people have passed through the earth. In a word, I haven't seen inside the retort where all this takes place. But there is quite certainly and is bound to be a law of some kind; all this cannot be the result of chance.’


Pain and suffering are inevitable for persons of broad awareness and depth of heart. The truly great are, in my view, always bound to feel a great sense of sadness during their time upon earth,’


‘No, those men aren't made like that; the real overlord, to whom all things are permitted, ransacks Toulon, commits a massacre in Paris, forgets an army in Egypt, throws away half a million men in his Moscow campaign and talks his way out at Vilna with a clever remark; and after his death they put up statues to him – and that means that everything is permitted to him. No! Men like that don't have bodies but lumps of bronze!’


The stub of candle had long been guttering in its crooked candlestick within that wretched room, shedding its dim light on the murderer and the prostitute who had so strangely encountered each other in the reading of the eternal book.


All night a black serpent of wounded self-esteem had eaten at his heart.


‘And then it was, Sonya, that I understood,’ he went on ecstatically, ‘that power is given only to those who dare to lower themselves and pick it up. Only one thing matters, one thing: to be able to dare! It was then that I conceived a certain idea, for the first time in my life, an idea that has never occurred to anyone before me! Not anyone! I suddenly saw, as clearly as the sun, that in the past no one has ever dared, and still does not dare, quite simply to pick up all that absurd nonsense by the tail in passing and toss it to the devil! I … I wanted to make the dare, and so I killed someone … To make the dare – that was the only reason for it, Sonya!’


wanted to kill without casuistry, Sonya, to kill for my own sake, for no one but myself! I didn't want to lie about that even to myself! I didn't kill in order to help my mother – that's rubbish! I didn't kill in order to get money and power and thus be able to become a benefactor of mankind. That's rubbish, too! I simply killed; I killed for my own sake, for no one but myself, and the question of whether I'd become someone's benefactor or spend all my life like a spider, drawing people into my web and sucking the vital juices from them, was a matter of complete indifference to me at that moment! …


I was simply trying to prove one thing to you: that the Devil led me to do what I did and only afterwards explained that I had no right to do it, because I'm just a louse like everyone else!


He wandered without aim. The sun was going down. A strange anguish had begun to tell on him of late. In it there was nothing particularly searing or burning; but from it there emanated something constant, eternal, that gave a foretaste of unending years of this cold, numbing anguish, a foretaste of a kind of eternity in ‘one arshin of space’.


This is a murky, fantastic case, a contemporary one, an incident that belongs to our own age, an age in which the heart of man has grown dark and muddied; in which one hears the saying quoted that “blood reinvigorates”; in which material comfort is preached as life's only aim.


suffering's not such a very terrible thing. Go and suffer for a bit. That Mikolka fellow may well be right in wanting to suffer. I know you don't believe it – but don't try to be too clever, either; surrender yourself directly to life, without circumspection; don't worry – it will carry you straight to the shore and put you on your feet. What shore? How should I know? I simply believe that you still have a lot of living to do yet. I know that you're listening to my words just now as if they were some sermon learnt by rote; perhaps later on you'll remember them, perhaps they'll be useful to you some day; that's why I'm saying them. It's also a good thing that it was only an old woman you murdered. If you'd thought up another theory you might have committed some deed a hundred million times more horrible! It may be that you still ought to thank God; why, for all you know he may be preserving you for something. Be of great heart, and fear less. Are you afraid of the great discharge of duty that lies ahead of you? No, at the point you have reached, such fear is shameful. Since you have taken such a step, you must stand firm. You have reached the moment of justice. So discharge the duty that justice requires of you. I know you don't believe it, but I promise you, life will carry you through. You'll even get to like each other afterwards. What you need now, though, is simply air, air, air!’


Become a sun, and then everyone will see you.


If, on the other hand, you're convinced that it's wrong to eavesdrop at doors, but it's perfectly all right to crack the skulls of old women, then off you go to America at the double! Run for it, young man! You may still have time.


waking dreams rose up one after the other, fragments of thought went flickering past, without beginning, end, or anything to connect them.


‘The blood that's on everyone's hands,’ he caught her up, almost in a frenzy now, ‘that flows and has always flowed through the world like a waterfall, that is poured like champagne and for the sake of which men are crowned in the Capitol and then called the benefactors of mankind.


They tried to speak, but were unable to. There were tears in their eyes. Both of them looked pale and thin; but in these ill, pale faces there now gleamed the dawn of a renewed future, a complete recovery to a new life. What had revived them was love, the heart of the one containing an infinite source of life for the heart of the other.


In place of dialectics life had arrived, and in his consciousness something of a wholly different nature must now work towards fruition.


Discourses and Selected Writings (Penguin Classics), Epictetus and Robert Dobbin


whatever is rational is tolerable.


‘But if I refuse to participate in Nero’s festival, he will kill me.’ [17] Go ahead and participate, then – but I still refuse. ‘Why?’ Because you think of yourself as no more than a single thread in the robe, whose duty it is to conform to the mass of people – just as a single white thread seemingly has no wish to clash with the remainder of the garment. [18] But I aspire to be the purple stripe, that is, the garment’s brilliant hem. However small a part it may be, it can still manage to make the garment as a whole attractive. Don’t tell me, then, ‘Be like the rest,’ because in that case I cannot be the purple stripe.


‘But if we are endowed by nature with the potential for greatness, why do only some of us achieve it?’ Well, do all horses become stallions? Are all dogs greyhounds? [35] Even if I lack the talent, I will not abandon the effort on that account.


we do not abandon any discipline for despair of ever being the best in it.


You should thank the gods for making you strong enough to survive what you cannot control, and only responsible for what you can. [33] The gods have released you from accountability for your parents, your siblings, your body, your possessions – for death and for life itself. [34] They made you responsible only for what is in your power – the proper use of impressions. [35] So why take on the burden of matters which you cannot answer for? You are only making unnecessary problems for yourself.


‘But the tyrant will chain –’ What will he chain? Your leg. ‘He will chop off –’ What? Your head. What he will never chain or chop off is your integrity. That’s the reason behind the ancient advice to ‘know yourself’.


When someone is properly grounded in life, they shouldn’t have to look outside themselves for approval.


The true man is revealed in difficult times.


Some dour, inflexible types will say, ‘I can’t eat at this man’s table if it means listening to his war stories again: “I told you, friend, how I scrambled up the hill; now we came under renewed bombardment …”’ [16] But another person in the same situation might say, ‘The meal is what matters; let him rattle on to his heart’s content.’ [17] It is for you to arrange your priorities; but whatever you decide to do, don’t do it resentfully, as if you were being imposed on. And don’t believe your situation is genuinely bad – no one can make you do that.


the mind is subject only to itself. It alone can control it, [13] which shows the force and justice of God’s edict: the strong shall always prevail over the weak. [14] ‘Ten are stronger than one.’ Yes, for what, though? For taking people captive, for killing or dragging them off, for taking away their property. For main force, yes, ten are better than one. [15] But one person with right judgements is superior to ten without. Numbers here are irrelevant. Put them in the balance, the person with correct ideas will outweigh all the others.


But if your view of yourself involves being part of a whole, then, for the sake of the whole, circumstances may make it right for you to be sick, go on a dangerous journey, endure poverty, even die before your time. Don’t complain; [26] just as it would not be a foot, don’t you realize that in isolation you would not be a human being? Because what is a human being? Part of a community – the community of gods and men, primarily, and secondarily that of the city we happen to inhabit, which is only a microcosm of the universe in toto.


Next, know that you are a brother. This role also calls for deference, respect and civility. Never get into family fights over material things; give them up willingly, and your moral standing will increase in proportion.


Whenever I see a person suffering from nervousness, I think, well, what can he expect? If he had not set his sights on things outside man’s control, his nervousness would end at once. [2] Take a lyre player: he’s relaxed when he performs alone, but put him in front of an audience, and it’s a different story, no matter how beautiful his voice or how well he plays the instrument. Why? Because he not only wants to perform well, he wants to be well received – and the latter lies outside his control.


Begin with a firm foundation; evaluate your decision to see if it is valid – then there will be a basis for this rigid resolve of yours. [9] If your foundation is rotten or crumbling, not a thing should be built on it,∗ and the bigger and grander you make it, the sooner it will collapse.


Free is the person who lives as he wishes and cannot be coerced, impeded or compelled, whose impulses cannot be thwarted, who always gets what he desires and never has to experience what he would rather avoid.


someone constrained by love to act against their better judgement, who sees the right thing to do but is powerless to act on it, might be considered the more deserving of compassion inasmuch as they are in the grip of a violent and, in some ways, a supernatural force.


what philosophers say may be contrary to expectation, but not to reason.


the more we value things outside our control, the less control we have.


It is just charming how people boast about qualities beyond their control. For instance, ‘I am better than you because I have many estates, while you are practically starving’; or, ‘I’m a consul,’ ‘I’m a governor,’ or ‘I have fine curly hair.’ One horse doesn’t say to another, ‘I’m better than you because I have lots of hay and barley, my reins are of gold, and my saddle is embroidered,’ but ‘I’m better because I’m faster than you.’ Every animal is judged better or worse based on its particular virtue or defect. Is man the only creature lacking a virtue, that we have to take account of his hair, his clothes, or his ancestry?


Do Androids Dream Of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration behind Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049 (S.F. MASTERWORKS), Philip K. Dick


Mors certa, vita incerta, as Mr Sloat occasionally declared. Isidore, although he had heard the expression a number of times, retained only a dim notion as to its meaning. After all, if a chickenhead could fathom Latin he would cease to be a chickenhead.


Empathy, evidently, existed only within the human community, whereas intelligence to some degree could be found throughout every phylum and order including the arachnida.


Empathy, he once had decided, must be limited to herbivores or anyhow omnivores who could depart from a meat diet. Because, ultimately, the emphatic gift blurred the boundaries between hunter and victim, between the successful and the defeated.


As long as some creature experienced joy, then the condition for all other creatures included a fragment of joy. However, if any living being suffered, then for all the rest the shadow could not be entirely cast off. A herd animal such as man would acquire a higher survival factor through this; an owl or a cobra would be destroyed. Evidently the humanoid robot constituted a solitary predator.


He had never thought of this before, the similarity between an electric animal and an andy. The electric animal, he pondered, could be considered a subform of the other, a kind of vastly inferior robot. Or, conversely, the android could be regarded as a highly developed, evolved version of the ersatz animal. Both viewpoints repelled him.


This rehearsal will end, the performance will end, the singers will die, eventually the last score of the music will be destroyed in one way or another; finally the name ‘Mozart’ will vanish, the dust will have won.


‘You will be required to do wrong no matter where you go. It is the basic condition of life, to be required to violate your own identity. At some time, every creature which lives must do so. It is the ultimate shadow, the defeat of creation; this is the curse at work, the curse that feeds on all life. Everywhere in the universe.’


You have to be with other people, he thought. In order to live at all.


Dubliners, James Joyce


All the seas of the world tumbled about her heart. He was drawing her into them: he would drown her.


She set her white face to him, passive, like a helpless animal. Her eyes gave him no sign of love or farewell or recognition.


He had walked the streets long enough with friends and with girls. He knew what those friends were worth: he knew the girls too.


The voice, made plaintive by distance and by the singer’s hoarseness, faintly illuminated the cadence of the air


Like the tender fire of stars moments of their life together, that no one knew of or would ever know of, broke upon and illumined his memory.


One by one, they were all becoming shades. Better pass boldly into that other world, in the full glory of some passion, than fade and wither dismally with age.


His soul swooned slowly as he heard the snow falling faintly through the universe and faintly falling, like the descent of their last end, upon all the living and the dead.


Fahrenheit 451: The gripping and inspiring classic of dystopian science fiction, Ray Bradbury


And he remembered thinking then that if she died, he was certain he wouldn’t cry. For it would be the dying of an unknown, a street face, a newspaper image, and it was suddenly so very wrong that he had begun to cry, not at death but at the thought of not crying at death, a silly empty man near a silly empty woman, while the hungry snake made her still more empty.


Out of the nursery into the college and back to the nursery; there’s your intellectual pattern for the past five centuries or more.’


Each man the image of every other; then all are happy, for there are no mountains to make them cower, to judge themselves against.


‘Go home.’ Montag fixed his eyes upon her, quietly. ‘Go home and think of your first husband divorced and your second husband killed in a jet and your third husband blowing his brains out, go home and think of the dozen abortions you’ve had, go home and think of that and your damn Caesarian sections, too, and your children who hate your guts! Go home and think how it all happened and what did you ever do to stop it?


He imagined thousands on thousands of faces peering into yards, into alleys, and into the sky, faces hid by curtains, pale, night-frightened faces, like grey animals peering from electric caves, faces with grey colourless eyes, grey tongues and grey thoughts looking out through the numb flesh of the face.


grandfather died, and he was a sculptor. He was also a very kind man who had a lot of love to give the world, and he helped clean up the slum in our town; and he made toys for us and he did a million things in his lifetime; he was always busy with his hands. And when he died, I suddenly realized I wasn’t crying for him at all, but for the things he did. I cried because he would never do them again, he would never carve another piece of wood or help us raise doves and pigeons in the back yard or play the violin the way he did, or tell us the jokes the way he did. He was part of us and when he died, all the actions stopped dead and there was no one to do them just the way he did. He was individual. He was an important man. I’ve never gotten over his death. Often I think, what wonderful carvings never came to birth because he died. How many jokes are missing from the world, and how many homing pigeons untouched by his hands. He shaped the world. He did things to the world. The world was bankrupted of ten million fine actions the night he passed on.’


‘Everyone must leave something behind when he dies, my grandfather said. A child or a book or a painting or a house or a wall built or a pair of shoes made. Or a garden planted. Something your hand touched some way so your soul has somewhere to go when you die, and when people look at that tree or that flower you planted, you’re there. It doesn’t matter what you do, he said, so long as you change something from the way it was before you touched it into something that’s like you after you take your hands away. The difference between the man who just cuts lawns and a real gardener is in the touching, he said. The lawn-cutter might just as well not have been there at all; the gardener will be there a lifetime.’


Because you don’t have to burn books, do you, if the world starts to fill up with non-readers, non-learners, non-knowers? If the world widescreen basketballs and footballs itself to drown in MTV, no Beattys are needed to ignite the kerosene or hunt the reader.


Heart of Darkness, Joseph Conrad and 1st World Library and and 1stworld Library


“And this also,” said Marlow suddenly, “has been one of the dark places of the earth.”


One ship is very much like another, and the sea is always the same. In the immutability of their surroundings the foreign shores, the foreign faces, the changing immensity of life, glide past, veiled not by a sense of mystery but by a slightly disdainful ignorance; for there is nothing mysterious to a seaman unless it be the sea itself, which is the mistress of his existence and as inscrutable as Destiny.


“They were dying slowly—it was very clear. They were not enemies, they were not criminals, they were nothing earthly now,—nothing but black shadows of disease and starvation, lying confusedly in the greenish gloom.


I don’t like work—no man does—but I like what is in the work,—the chance to find yourself. Your own reality—for yourself, not for others—what no other man can ever know. They can only see the mere show, and never can tell what it really means.


And this stillness of life did not in the least resemble a peace. It was the stillness of an implacable force brooding over an inscrutable intention.


“The earth seemed unearthly. We are accustomed to look upon the shackled form of a conquered monster, but there—there you could look at a thing monstrous and free.


It echoed loudly within him because he was hollow at the core.


he said: these heads were the heads of rebels. I shocked him excessively by laughing. Rebels! What would be the next definition I was to hear? There had been enemies, criminals, workers—and these were rebels. Those rebellious heads looked very subdued to me on their sticks.


Killers of the Flower Moon: Oil, Money, Murder and the Birth of the FBI, David Grann


“It filled my little boy’s soul with fear and bittersweetness, and exotic yearning, and when it had ended and I lay there in my exultant fear-trance, I hoped fervently that there would be more of it, and yet I was afraid that there might be. It seemed to me later, after I had begun to reason, that this prayer-song, this chant, this soul-stirring petition, always ended before it was finished, in a sob of frustration.”


The Osage elders sang the traditional songs for the dead, only now the songs seemed for the living, for those who had to endure this world of killing.


History is a merciless judge. It lays bare our tragic blunders and foolish missteps and exposes our most intimate secrets, wielding the power of hindsight like an arrogant detective who seems to know the end of the mystery from the outset.


Meditations: A New Translation (Modern Library), Marcus Aurelius and Ryan Holiday and and Gregory Hays


Concentrate every minute like a Roman—like a man—on doing what’s in front of you with precise and genuine seriousness, tenderly, willingly, with justice. And on freeing yourself from all other distractions. Yes, you can—if you do everything as if it were the last thing you were doing in your life, and stop being aimless, stop letting your emotions override what your mind tells you, stop being hypocritical, self-centered, irritable.


You could leave life right now. Let that determine what you do and say and think.


Heraclitus often told us the world would end in fire. But it was moisture that carried him off; he died smeared with cowshit.


Don’t waste the rest of your time here worrying about other people—unless it affects the common good. It will keep you from doing anything useful. You’ll be too preoccupied with what so-and-so is doing, and why, and what they’re saying, and what they’re thinking, and what they’re up to, and all the other things that throw you off and keep you from focusing on your own mind.


Your ability to control your thoughts—treat it with respect. It’s all that protects your mind from false perceptions—false to your nature, and that of all rational beings. It’s what makes thoughtfulness possible, and affection for other people,


It can ruin your life only if it ruins your character. Otherwise it cannot harm you—inside or out.


reconsider your position, when someone can set you straight or convert you to his. But your conversion should always rest on a conviction that it’s right, or benefits others—nothing else. Not because it’s more appealing or more popular.


If our souls survive, how does the air find room for them—all of them—since the beginning of time? How does the earth find room for all the bodies buried in it since the beginning of time? They linger for whatever length of time, and then, through change and decomposition, make room for others. So too with the souls that inhabit the air. They linger a little, and then are changed—diffused and kindled into fire, absorbed into the logos from which all things spring, and so make room for new arrivals.


It’s unfortunate that this has happened. No. It’s fortunate that this has happened and I’ve remained unharmed by it—not shattered by the present or frightened of the future. It could have happened to anyone. But not everyone could have remained unharmed by it.


So remember this principle when something threatens to cause you pain: the thing itself was no misfortune at all; to endure it and prevail is great good fortune.


23. Keep in mind how fast things pass by and are gone—those that are now, and those to come. Existence flows past us like a river: the “what” is in constant flux, the “why” has a thousand variations. Nothing is stable, not even what’s right here. The infinity of past and future gapes before us—a chasm whose depths we cannot see. So it would take an idiot to feel self-importance or distress. Or any indignation, either. As if the things that irritate us lasted.


24. Alexander the Great and his mule driver both died and the same thing happened to both. They were absorbed alike into the life force of the world, or dissolved alike into atoms.


7. Don’t be ashamed to need help. Like a soldier storming a wall, you have a mission to accomplish. And if you’ve been wounded and you need a comrade to pull you up? So what?


16. Remember that to change your mind and to accept correction are free acts too. The action is yours, based on your own will, your own decision—and your own mind.


To see the nature of a sunbeam, look at light as it falls through a narrow opening into a dark room. It extends in a straight line, striking any solid object that stands in its way and blocks the space beyond it. There it remains—not vanishing, or falling away. That’s what the outpouring—the diffusion—of thought should be like: not emptied out, but extended. And not striking at obstacles with fury and violence, or falling away before them, but holding its ground and illuminating what receives it. What doesn’t transmit light creates its own darkness.


17. Continual awareness of all time and space, of the size and life span of the things around us. A grape seed in infinite space. A half twist of a corkscrew against eternity.


… leaves that the wind Drives earthward; such are the generations of men. Your children, leaves. Leaves applauding loyally and heaping praise upon you, or turning around and calling down curses, sneering and mocking from a safe distance. A glorious reputation handed down by leaves. All of these “spring up in springtime”—and the wind blows them all away. And the tree puts forth others to replace them. None of us have much time. And yet you act as if things were eternal—the way you fear and long for them.… Before long, darkness. And whoever buries you mourned in their turn.


So make your exit with grace—the same grace shown to you.


Mindhunter: Inside the FBI Elite Serial Crime Unit, the Bestselling True Story (Now A Netflix Series), John Douglas and Mark Olshaker


The three most common motives of serial rapists and murderers turn out to be domination, manipulation, and control. When you consider that most of these guys are angry, ineffectual losers who feel they’ve been given the shaft by life, and that most of them have experienced some sort of physical or emotional abuse, as Ed Kemper had, it isn’t surprising that one of their main fantasy occupations is police officer.


So I believe from the background information and the interviews we did with Manson that while he made his followers into what he needed, they, in turn, made him into what they needed and forced him to fulfill it.


Modus operandi—MO—is learned behavior. It’s what the perpetrator does to commit the crime. It is dynamic—that is, it can change. Signature, a term I coined to distinguish it from MO, is what the perpetrator has to do to fulfill himself. It is static; it does not change.


I spent so much time over the years learning about the victimology of dead children that I shortchanged and didn’t learn enough about my own brilliantly alive ones.


Modern Man in Search of a Soul (Routledge Classics), C.G. Jung


It may be said that the middle position is held by those people who know that they have outgrown the Church as exemplified in Christianity, but who have not therefore been brought to deny the fact that a religious attitude to life is as essential to them as a belief in the authenticity of science.


The dream gives a true picture of the subjective state, while the conscious mind denies that this state exists, or recognizes it only grudgingly.


almost the half of our lives is passed in a more or less unconscious state. The dream is specifically the utterance of the unconscious.


As soon as man was capable of conceiving the idea of sin, he had recourse to psychic concealment—or, to put it in analytical language, repressions arose. Anything that is concealed is a secret. The maintenance of secrets acts like a psychic poison which alienates their possessor from the community. In small doses, this poison may actually be a priceless remedy, even an essential preliminary to the differentiation of the individual.


for what is inferior or even worthless belongs to me as my shadow and gives me substance and mass.


How can I be substantial if I fail to cast a shadow? I must have a dark side also if I am to be whole; and inasmuch as I become conscious of my shadow I also remember that I am a human being like any other.


Nothing influences our conduct less than do intellectual ideas. But when an idea is the expression of psychic experience which bears fruit in regions as far separated and as free from historical relation as East and West, then we must look into the matter closely. For such ideas represent forces that are beyond logical justification and moral sanction; they are always stronger than man and his brain. Man believes indeed that he moulds these ideas, but in reality they mould him and make him their unwitting mouthpiece.


Adler obviously has his eye on repressed and socially unsuccessful people whose one passion is for self-assertion. These people are neurotic because they always imagine themselves oppressed and tilt at the windmills of their own fancies, thus putting the goal they most desire quite out of reach.


Our world is so exceedingly rich in delusions that a truth is priceless,


man can hope for satisfaction and fulfilment only in what he does not yet possess; he cannot find pleasure in something of which he has already had too much.


The meeting of two personalities is like the contact of two chemical substances: if there is any reaction, both are transformed.


be the man through whom you wish to influence others. Mere talk has always been considered hollow, and there is no trick, however cunning, by which one can evade this simple rule for long. The fact of being convinced, and not the subject-matter of conviction—it is this which has always carried weight.


The great decisions of human life have as a rule far more to do with the instincts and other mysterious unconscious factors than with conscious will and well-meaning reasonableness. The shoe that fits one person pinches another; there is no recipe for living that suits all cases.


Each of us carries his own life-form—an indeterminable form which cannot be superseded by any other.


About a third of my cases are suffering from no clinically definable neurosis, but from the senselessness and emptiness of their lives. It seems to me, however, that this can well be described as the general neurosis of our time.


The least of things with a meaning is worth more in life than the greatest of things without it.


Intelligence, like stupidity, is not a function but a modality; the term tells us nothing more than how a function works.


the achievements which society rewards are won at the cost of a diminution of personality. Many—far too many—aspects of life which should also have been experienced lie in the lumber-room among dusty memories. Sometimes, even, they are glowing coals under grey ashes.


The afternoon of human life must also have a significance of its own and cannot be merely a pitiful appendage to life’s morning.


Of course, if these persons had filled up the beaker of life earlier and emptied it to the lees, they would feel quite differently about everything now;


had they kept nothing back, all that wanted to catch fire would have been consumed, and the quiet of old age would be very welcome to them.


But here my physician’s conscience awakes and urges me to say a word which is essential to this question. I have observed that a directed life is in general better, richer and healthier than an aimless one, and that it is better to go forwards with the stream of time than backwards against it. To the psychotherapist an old man who cannot bid farewell to life appears as feeble and sickly as a young man who is unable to embrace it.


On the contrary, every civilized human being, whatever his conscious development, is still an archaic man at the deeper levels of his psyche. Just as the human body connects us with the mammals and displays numerous relics of earlier evolutionary stages going back even to the reptilian age, so the human psyche is likewise a product of evolution which, when followed up to its origins, shows countless archaic traits.


the conscious ego is swept along on a subterranean current,


As to the ultimate we can know nothing, and only when we admit this do we return to a state of equilibrium.


shockingly unscientific, for morals have nothing to do with science. He supposed that, by invoking scientific thought, he could spirit away the immorality which he himself could not stomach.


How often have I heard a patient exclaim_ “If only I knew that my life had some meaning and purpose, then there would be no silly story about my nerves!” Whether the person in question is rich or poor, has family and social position or not, alters nothing, for outer circumstances are far from giving his life a meaning. It is much more a question of his unreasoned need of what we call a spiritual life, and this he cannot obtain from universities, libraries, or even churches. He cannot accept what these have to offer because it touches only his head, and does not stir his heart.


I must say that the man we call modern, the man who is aware of the immediate present, is by no means the average man. He is rather the man who stands upon a peak, or at the very edge of the world, the abyss of the future before him, above him the heavens, and below him the whole of mankind with a history that disappears in primeval mists.


It must be clearly understood that the mere fact of living in the present does not make a man modern, for in that case everyone at present alive would be so. He alone is modem who is fully conscious of the present.


Through his scepticism the modern man is thrown back upon himself; his energies flow towards their source and wash to the surface those psychic contents which are at all times there, but lie hidden in the silt as long as the stream flows smoothly in its course.


At first we cannot see beyond the path that leads downward to dark and hateful things—but no light or beauty will ever come from the man who cannot bear this sight.


I have found that modern man has an ineradicable aversion for traditional opinions and inherited truths.


Among these moderns there are of course certain of those denigrating, destructive and perverse natures—unbalanced eccentrics—who are never satisfied anywhere, and who therefore flock to every new banner, much to the hurt of these movements and undertakings, in the hope of finding something for once which will atone at a low cost for their own insufficiency.


This living spirit is eternally renewed and pursues its goal in manifold and inconceivable ways throughout the history of mankind. Measured against it, the names and forms which men have given it mean little enough; they are only the changing leaves and blossoms on the stem of the eternal tree.


Notes from the Underground, and The Gambler (Oxford World&#39;s Classics), Fyodor Dostoevsky and Malcolm Jones and and Jane Kentish


The underground in Dostoevsky’s sense is the consciousness of a hero (or anti-hero) morbidly obsessed with his own impotence in dealing with social realities. This obsession is usually accompanied by feelings of bitterness and resentment towards that society which forbids him entry.


I’m now living out my days in my corner, tormenting myself with the spiteful and utterly useless comfort that an intelligent man cannot seriously become anything and that it is only a fool that does.


swear to you, gentlemen, that to be too conscious is an illness, a genuine full-blown illness.


But the essence of that strange pleasure about which I spoke is to be found precisely in this cold, loathsome state of semi-despair, semi-faith, in the conscious burying of oneself alive with grief in the underground for forty years, in the strenuously created but nevertheless partially doubted inevitability of one’s situation, in all the poison of unfulfilled wishes that have turned inwards, in the whole delirium of vacillation, of decisions taken once and for all and regretted a minute later.


all spontaneous people and men of action are active because they are dull-witted and limited.


But what can be done about it if the direct and single purpose of any intelligent person is to chatter, that is to say the deliberate pouring of emptiness into the void?


But man is so partial to systems and abstract conclusions that he is prepared to distort the truth intentionally, he is prepared not to see what he sees, not to hear what he hears, simply in order to justify his logic.


At any rate, as a result of civilization man has become, if not more bloodthirsty, then undoubtedly more horribly, more revoltingly bloodthirsty than before. Before, he saw justice in bloodshed and, with an easy conscience, he destroyed anyone he needed to; nowadays, although we regard bloodshed as something vile, we nevertheless involve ourselves in this bloodshed even more than before.


For example, I should not be in the least surprised if suddenly, for no reason at all, some gentleman or other with a dishonourable, or shall we say, a reactionary and sarcastic demeanour springs up amidst this future reign of universal good sense and puts his hands on his hips and says to us all: ‘Well, gentlemen, why don’t we get rid of all this good sense once and for all, give it a kick, throw it to the wind, just in order to send all these logarithms to hell so that we can once again live according to our own foolish will?’ And this wouldn’t matter either, but it’s upsetting that he would undoubtedly find followers: that’s the way man is made.


‘in order to lose it one first has to have it.’


Only Dull People Are Brilliant at Breakfast (Penguin Little Black Classics), Oscar Wilde


Unless one is wealthy there is no use in being a charming fellow. Romance is the privilege of the rich, not the profession of the unemployed. The poor should be practical and prosaic. It is better to have a permanent income than to be fascinating.


But what is the good of friendship if one cannot say exactly what one means? Anybody can say charming things and try to please and to flatter, but a true friend always says unpleasant things, and does not mind giving pain. Indeed, if he is a really true friend he prefers it, for he knows that then he is doing good.


Education is an admirable thing. But it is well to remember from time to time that nothing that is worth knowing can be taught.


Conversation should touch everything, but should concentrate itself on nothing.


An idea that is not dangerous is unworthy of being called an idea at all.


Man is least himself when he talks in his own person. Give him a mask, and he will tell you the truth.


For what is Truth? In matters of religion, it is simply the opinion that has survived. In matters of science, it is the ultimate sensation. In matters of art, it is one’s last mood.


There is always something ridiculous about the emotions of people whom one has ceased to love.


To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people exist, that is all.


The fact is, that civilization requires slaves. The Greeks were quite right there. Unless there are slaves to do the ugly, horrible, uninteresting work, culture and contemplation become almost impossible. Human slavery is wrong, insecure and demoralizing. On mechanical slavery, on the slavery of the machine, the future of the world depends.


Most people are other people. Their thoughts are someone else’s opinions, their lives a mimicry, their passions a quotation.


Praise makes me humble, but when I am abused I know I have touched the stars.


Discontent is the first step in the progress of a man or a nation.


Disobedience, in the eyes of anyone who has read history, is man’s original virtue. It is through disobedience that progress has been made, through disobedience and through rebellion.


Children begin by loving their parents. After a time they judge them. Rarely, if ever, do they forgive them.


The aim of life is self-development. To realize one’s nature perfectly – that is what each of us is here for.


One can live for years sometimes without living at all, and then all life comes crowding into one single hour.


The books that the world calls immoral books are books that show the world its own shame.


Morality is simply the attitude we adopt towards people whom we personally dislike.


It is personalities, not principles, that move the age.


Only dull people are brilliant at breakfast.


Seneca&#39;s Letters from a Stoic, Lucius Annaeus Seneca and Classics HQ


Those persons indeed put last first and confound their duties, who, violating the rules of Theophrastus, judge a man after they have made him their friend, instead of making him their friend after they have judged him.


No good thing is pleasant to possess, without friends to share it.


We should cherish the body with the greatest care; but we should also be prepared, when reason, self-respect, and duty demand the sacrifice, to deliver it even to the flames.


No man, however, enjoys a blessing that brings anxiety; he is always trying to add a little more. While he puzzles over increasing his wealth, he forgets how to use it. He collects his accounts, he wears out the pavement in the forum, he turns over his ledger, – in short, he ceases to be master and becomes a steward.


"The fool's life is empty of gratitude and full of fears; its course lies wholly toward the future."


"If you live according to nature, you will never be poor; if you live according to opinion, you will never be rich." 8. Nature's wants are slight; the demands of opinion are boundless.


philosophy teaches us to act, not to speak; it exacts of every man that he should live according to his own standards, that his life should not be out of harmony with his words, and that, further, his inner life should be of one hue and not out of harmony with all his activities. This, I say, is the highest duty and the highest proof of wisdom, – that deed and word should be in accord, that a man should be equal to himself under all conditions, and always the same.


Men do not care how nobly they live, but only how long, although it is within the reach of every man to live nobly, but within no man's power to live long.


"Why do you wonder that globe-trotting does not help you, seeing that you always take yourself with you? The reason which set you wandering is ever at your heels."


"He is a slave." His soul, however, may be that of a freeman. "He is a slave." But shall that stand in his way? Show me a man who is not a slave; one is a slave to lust, another to greed, another to ambition, and all men are slaves to fear.


No servitude is more disgraceful than that which is self-imposed.


Infinitely swift is the flight of time, as those see more clearly who are looking backwards. For when we are intent on the present, we do not notice it, so gentle is the passage of time's headlong flight.


and are wholly employed in the making of their own foundations. I should accordingly deem more fortunate the man who has never had any trouble with himself; but the other, I feel, has deserved better of himself, who has won a victory over the meanness of his own nature, and has not gently led himself, but has wrestled his way, to wisdom.


no man in public life thinks of the many whom he has outstripped; he thinks rather of those by whom he is outstripped. And these men find it less pleasing to see many behind them than annoying to see anyone ahead of them. That is the trouble with every sort of ambition; it does not look back.


The sum total of our happiness must not be placed in the flesh; the true goods are those which reason bestows, substantial and eternal; they cannot fall away, neither can they grow less or be diminished.


The addition of friends does not make one wiser, nor does their taking away make one more foolish; therefore, not happier or more wretched, either. As long is your virtue is unharmed, you will not feel the loss of anything that has been withdrawn from you.


You ask what this freedom is? It means not fearing either men or gods; it means not craving wickedness or excess; it means possessing supreme power over oneself And it is a priceless good to be master of oneself.


Nothing, my excellent Lucilius, refreshes and aids a sick man so much as the affection of his friends; nothing so steals away the expectation and the fear of death. In fact, I could not believe that, if they survived me, I should be dying at all. Yes, I repeat, it seemed to me that I should continue to live, not with them, but through them. I imagined myself not to be yielding up my soul, but to be making it over to them.


Two elements must therefore be rooted out once for all, – the fear of future suffering, and the recollection of past suffering; since the latter no longer concerns me, and the former concerns me not yet.


but any life must seem short to those who measure its length by pleasures which are empty and for that reason unbounded.


It is therefore useless to enter in your ledger the item of "Freedom," for freedom is possessed neither by those who have bought it, nor by those who have sold it.


Leisure without study is death; it is a tomb for the living man.


"No man in the bonds of drunkenness has power over his soul. As the very vats are burst by new wine, and as the dregs at the bottom are raised to the surface by the strength of the fermentation; so, when the wine effervesces, whatever lies hidden below is brought up and made visible.


Whatever seems conspicuous in the affairs of men – however petty it may really be and prominent only by contrast with the lowest objects – is nevertheless approached by a difficult and toilsome pathway. It is a rough road that leads to the heights of greatness; but if you desire to scale this peak, which lies far above the range of Fortune, you will indeed look down from above upon all that men regard as most lofty, but none the less you can proceed to the top over level ground.


can scarcely force myself to wish that others shall think this cart mine. My false embarrassment about the truth still holds out, you see; and whenever we meet a more sumptuous party I blush in spite of myself – proof that this conduct which I approve and applaud has not yet gained a firm and steadfast dwelling-place within me. He who blushes at riding in a rattle-trap will boast when he rides in style.


unseemly pursuit of the liberal arts makes men troublesome, wordy, tactless, self-satisfied bores, who fail to learn the essentials just because they have learned the non-essentials.


A thatched roof once covered free men; under marble and gold dwells slavery.


What benefit does this older man derive from the eighty years he has spent in idleness? A person like him has not lived; he has merely tarried awhile in life. Nor has he died late in life; he has simply been a long time dying. He has lived eighty years, has he? That depends upon the date from which you reckon his death!


A man may know that he should fight for his country, but fear will dissuade him. A man may know that he should sweat forth his last drop of energy on behalf of his friends, but luxury will forbid.


All things that Fortune looks upon become productive and pleasant, only if he who possesses them is in possession also of himself, and is not in the power of that which belongs to him.


When a man is stricken and is finding it most difficult to endure a grievous wound, one must humour him for a while; let him satisfy his grief or at any rate work off the first shock; 2. but those who have assumed an indulgence in grief should be rebuked forthwith, and should learn that there are certain follies even in tears.


has grown to old age. How very little is he superior to the child! Place before your mind's eye the vast spread of time's abyss, and consider the universe; and then contrast our so-called human life with infinity: you will then see how scant is that for which we pray, and which we seek to lengthen.


The soul is our king. If it be safe, the other functions remain on duty and serve with obedience; but the slightest lack of equilibrium in the soul causes them to waver along with it. And when the soul has yielded to pleasure, its functions and actions grow weak, and any undertaking comes from a nerveless and unsteady source.


And do you know why we have not the power to attain this Stoic ideal? It is because we refuse to believe in our power. Nay, of a surety, there is something else which plays a part: it is because we are in love with our vices; we uphold them and prefer to make excuses for them rather than shake them off. We mortals have been endowed with sufficient strength by nature, if only we use this strength, if only we concentrate our powers and rouse them all to help us or at least not to hinder us. The reason is unwillingness, the excuse, inability. Farewell.


"Borrow from yourself!" No matter how small it is, it will be enough if we can only make up the deficit from our own resources. For, my dear Lucilius, it does not matter whether you crave nothing, or whether you possess something. The important principle in either case is the same – freedom from worry.


beneficial which holds men back when they are hurrying into wickedness. However, I will say this also: I can be of no greater benefit to you than by revealing the Good that is rightly yours, by taking you out of the class of dumb animals, and by placing you on a level with God.


"You will come to your own when you shall understand that those whom the world calls fortunate are really the most unfortunate of all."


Stoner: A Novel (Vintage Classics), John Williams and John McGahern


“Have you gentlemen ever considered the question of the true nature of the University? Mr. Stoner? Mr. Finch?” Smiling, they shook their heads. “I’ll bet you haven’t. Stoner, here, I imagine, sees it as a great repository, like a library or a whorehouse, where men come of their free will and select that which will complete them, where all work together like little bees in a common hive. The True, the Good, the Beautiful. They’re just around the corner, in the next corridor; they’re in the next book, the one you haven’t read, or in the next stack, the one you haven’t got to. But you’ll get to it someday.


“And so providence, or society, or fate, or whatever name you want to give it, has created this hovel for us, so that we can go in out of the storm. It’s for us that the University exists, for the dispossessed of the world; not for the students, not for the selfless pursuit of knowledge, not for any of the reasons that you hear. We give out the reasons, and we let a few of the ordinary ones in, those that would do in the world; but that’s just protective coloration. Like the church in the Middle Ages, which didn’t give a damn about the laity or even about God, we have our pretenses in order to survive. And we shall survive—because we have to.”


He turned on the bare, treeless little plot that held others like his mother and father and looked across the flat land in the direction of the farm where he had been born, where his mother and father had spent their years. He thought of the cost exacted, year after year, by the soil; and it remained as it had been—a little more barren, perhaps, a little more frugal of increase. Nothing had changed. Their lives had been expended in cheerless labor, their wills broken, their intelligences numbed.


veil aside, to discover the undiscoverable, to reach the unreachable? The strongest of us are but the puniest weaklings, are but tinkling cymbals and sounding brass, before the eternal mystery.”


Stoner could almost see this shadowy figure who had no face and no name; his shock turned to sadness, and he felt a generous pity for an unknown boy who, out of an obscure lost bitterness, had thrust away from him what Stoner now possessed.


figure who flitted across the collective imagination like a ghost: she drank secretly, out of some obscure and distant sorrow; she was dying slowly of a rare and always fatal disease; she was a brilliantly talented artist who had given up her career to devote herself to Stoner.


a framework, so that the lines upon the skin were taut and sharp. She was very pale, and she used a great deal of powder and paint in such a way that it appeared she daily composed her own features upon a blank mask.


Stoner watched them drive away from the house, and he could think of his daughter only as a very small girl who had once sat beside him in a distant room and looked at him with solemn delight, as a lovely child who long ago had died.


He got a copy of the book as soon as he could. When he held it in his hands his fingers seemed to come alive; they trembled so that he could scarcely open it. He turned the first few pages and saw the dedication: “To W.S.”


He had, in odd ways, given it to every moment of his life, and had perhaps given it most fully when he was unaware of his giving. It was a passion neither of the mind nor of the flesh; rather, it was a force that comprehended them both, as if they were but the matter of love, its specific substance. To a woman or to a poem, it said simply: Look! I am alive.


A low hum, like the distant thrumming of birds’ wings, was in his ears; in the shadowed corridor a sourceless light seemed to glow and dim, pulsating like the beat of his heart; and his flesh, intimately aware of every move he made, tingled as he stepped forward with deliberate care into the mingled light and dark.


It hardly mattered to him that the book was forgotten and that it served no use; and the question of its worth at any time seemed almost trivial. He did not have the illusion that he would find himself there, in that fading print; and yet, he knew, a small part of him that he could not deny was there, and would be there.


Studies in Pessimism, On Human Nature, and Religion: a Dialogue, etc., Arthur Schopenhauer and T. Bailey Saunders


The pleasure in this world, it has been said, outweighs the pain; or, at any rate, there is an even balance between the two. If the reader wishes to see shortly whether this statement is true, let him compare the respective feelings of two animals, one of which is engaged in eating the other.


There are two things which make it impossible to believe that this world is the successful work of an all-wise, all-good, and, at the same time, all-powerful Being; firstly, the misery which abounds in it everywhere; and secondly, the obvious imperfection of its highest product, man, who is a burlesque of what he should be.


The whole foundation on which our existence rests is the present—the ever-fleeting present. It lies, then, in the very nature of our existence to take the form of constant motion, and to offer no possibility of our ever attaining the rest for which we are always striving. We are like a man running downhill, who cannot keep on his legs unless he runs on, and will inevitably fall if he stops; or, again, like a pole balanced on the tip of one's finger; or like a planet, which would fall into its sun the moment it ceased to hurry forward on its way. Unrest is the mark of existence.


We look upon the present as something to be put up with while it lasts, and serving only as the way towards our goal. Hence most people, if they glance back when they come to the end of life, will find that all along they have been living ad interim: they will be surprised to find that the very thing they disregarded and let slip by unenjoyed, was just the life in the expectation of which they passed all their time. Of how many a man may it not be said that hope made a fool of him until he danced into the arms of death!


What makes people hard-hearted is this, that each man has, or fancies he has, as much as he can bear in his own troubles. Hence, if a man suddenly finds himself in an unusually happy position, it will in most cases result in his being sympathetic and kind. But if he has never been in any other than a happy position, or this becomes his permanent state, the effect of it is often just the contrary: it so far removes him from suffering that he is incapable of feeling any more sympathy with it. So it is that the poor often show themselves more ready to help than the rich.


if a man desires to be absolutely uncommon, in other words, great, he should never allow his consciousness to be taken possession of and dominated by the movement of his will, however much he may be solicited thereto.


Every man takes the limits of his own field of vision for the limits of the world. This is an error of the intellect as inevitable as that error of the eye which lets us fancy that on the horizon heaven and earth meet. This explains many things, and among them the fact that everyone measures us with his own standard—generally about as long as a tailor's tape, and we have to put up with it: as also that no one will allow us to be taller than himself—a supposition which is once for all taken for granted.


Men of very great capacity, will as a rule, find the company of very stupid people preferable to that of the common run; for the same reason that the tyrant and the mob, the grandfather and the grandchildren, are natural allies.


People of very brilliant ability think little of admitting their errors and weaknesses, or of letting others see them.


Christians are trained to cross themselves on certain occasions, to bow, and so on. Indeed, it may be said that religion is the chef d'oeuvre of the art of training, because it trains people in the way they shall think: and, as is well known, you cannot begin the process too early. There is no absurdity so palpable but that it may be firmly planted in the human head if you only begin to inculcate it before the age of five, by constantly repeating it with an air of great solemnity.


The Alchemist, Paulo Coelho


Everyone seems to have a clear idea of how other people should lead their lives, but none about his or her own.


when each day is the same as the next, it’s because people fail to recognize the good things that happen in their lives every day that the sun rises.


‘You cannot trust a man if you don’t know his house.’


But you are forcing me to look at wealth and at horizons I have never known. Now that I have seen them, and now that I see how immense my possibilities are, I’m going to feel worse than I did before you arrived. Because I know the things I should be able to accomplish, and I don’t want to do so.”


that there was a language in the world that everyone understood, a language the boy had used throughout the time that he was trying to improve things at the shop. It was the language of enthusiasm, of things accomplished with love and purpose, and as part of a search for something believed in and desired.


intuition is really a sudden immersion of the soul into the universal current of life, where the histories of all people are connected, and we are able to know everything, because it’s all written there.


“Because I don’t live in either my past or my future. I’m interested only in the present. If you can concentrate always on the present, you’ll be a happy man. You’ll see that there is life in the desert, that there are stars in the heavens, and that tribesmen fight because they are part of the human race. Life will be a party for you, a grand festival, because life is the moment we’re living right now.”


“Tell your heart that the fear of suffering is worse than the suffering itself. And that no heart has ever suffered when it goes in search of its dreams, because every second of the search is a second’s encounter with God and with eternity.”


The Birth of Tragedy: Out of the Spirit of Music (Penguin Classics), Friedrich Nietzsche and Michael Tanner and and Shaun Whiteside


At least as much as Marx, he was concerned to change the world, and held unswervingly the view that the health of a culture was to be estimated in terms of the art it produced.


Indeed, it must also be historically demonstrable that any period richly productive of folk songs has also been most intensely stimulated by Dionysiac currents, which we must always see as the substratum and precondition for the folk song.


For this very reason, the world-symbolism of music cannot be exhaustively interpreted through language, because it symbolically refers to the primal contradiction and the primal suffering within the primal Oneness, and thus symbolizes a sphere beyond and prior to all phenomena.


language, as the organ and symbol of phenomena, can never uncover the innermost core of music but, once it attempts to imitate music, always remains in superficial contact with it, and no amount of lyrical eloquence can bring its deepest meaning a step closer.


Dionysiac wisdom in particular, is an abominable crime against nature; that anyone who, through his knowledge, casts nature into the abyss of destruction, must himself experience the dissolution of nature.


It is through tragedy that myth attains its most profound content, its most expressive form; it rises up once more, like a wounded hero, and all the surplus energy, together with the sagacious calm of the dying man, burns in its eyes with a last, powerful glow.


it should not be forgotten that Socrates, an enemy of the art of tragedy, only ever attended performances of tragedies when a new play by Euripides was being performed.


The dying Socrates became the new ideal for noble Greek youth: more than any other, the typical Hellenic youth, Plato, prostrated himself before the image with all the fervent devotion of his fanatic soul.


This voice of the Socratic dream vision is the only indication that he ever gave any consideration to the limitations of logic. He was obliged to ask: ‘Is that which is unintelligible to me necessarily unintelligent? Might there be a realm of wisdom from which the logician is excluded? Might art even be a necessary correlative and supplement to science?’


the dialectic of knowledge, and hence were described as teachable. No one who has experienced the delight of Socratic knowledge, and sensed how, in ever-wider circles, it seeks to encompass the whole phenomenal world, will ever again find a stimulus to existence more compelling than the desire to complete that conquest, and weave the net to an impenetrable density.


We now knock agitatedly at the portals of the present and the future; will that ‘transformation’ lead to ever-new configurations of genius, and particularly of the music-making Socrates? Will the net of art that is spread over existence, whether in the name of religion or science, be woven ever more solidly and delicately, or is it doomed to be torn to shreds beneath the restless, barbaric hubbub that is ‘the present’? Let us stand aside for a while, concerned but not inconsolable, like contemplative men who are allowed to be witnesses of those tremendous battles and transitions. Alas – such is the magic of those battles that all who witness them must also join the fray!


The Brothers Karamazov: A Novel in Four Parts and an Epilogue (Penguin Classics S.), Fyodor Dostoyevsky and David McDuff


In the majority of instances human beings, even the evil-doers among them, are far more naïve and straightforward than we suppose. And that includes ourselves.


The true realist, if he is not a believer, will invariably find within himself the strength and the ability not to believe in miracles either, and if a miracle stands before him as an incontrovertible fact, he will sooner disbelieve his senses than admit that fact. And even if he does admit it, it will be as a fact of nature, but one that until now has been obscure to him. In the realist it is not faith that is born of miracles, but miracles of faith.


(for socialism is not only a problem of labour, or the so-called ‘fourth estate’, but is in the first instance a problem of atheism, of the contemporary embodiment of atheism, the problem of the Tower of Babel, constructed expressly without God, not for the attainment of heaven from earth, but for the abasement of heaven to earth).


The one who lies to himself and believes his own lies comes to a point where he can distinguish no truth either within himself or around him, and thus enters into a state of disrespect towards himself and others. Respecting no one, he loves no one, and to amuse and divert himself in the absence of love he gives himself up to his passions and to vulgar delights and becomes a complete animal in his vices, and all of it from perpetual lying to other people and himself.


“I love mankind,” he said, “but I marvel at myself: the more I love mankind in general, the less I love human beings in particular,


The main thing is to shun lies, all forms of lies, lies to yourself in particular. Keep a watch on your lies and study them every hour, every minute. Also shun disdain, both for others and for yourself: that which appears to you foul within yourself is cleansed by the very fact of your having noticed it in you. Also shun fear, although fear is only the consequence of any kind of lying. Never be daunted by your own lack of courage in the attainment of love, nor be over-daunted even by your bad actions in this regard.


But Ivan doesn’t love anyone, Ivan is not a Russian, men like Ivan are not Russians, they are stirred-up dust … The wind will blow and the dust will pass …


Even so, there have been and still are even today geometers and philosophers of the most remarkable kind who doubt that the entire universe or, even more broadly, the entirety of being was created solely according to Euclidean geometry, and who even make so bold as to dream that the two parallel lines which according to Euclid can on no account converge upon earth may yet do so somewhere in infinity. And so, my lad, I’ve decided that if I can’t even understand that, then how am I to understand about God? I meekly confess that I do not possess the faculties needed to solve such questions, the mind I have is a Euclidean, earthbound one, and so how are we to make inferences about that which is not of this world?


‘I think that if the Devil doesn’t exist and, consequently, man has created him, he has created him in his own image and likeness.’


‘Just in the same way he created God, in that case.’


There is for man no preoccupation more constant or more nagging than, while in a condition of freedom, quickly to find someone to bow down before.


For the secret of human existence


does not consist in living, merely, but in what one lives for.


Without a firm idea of what he is to live for, man will not consent to live and will sooner destroy himself than remain on the earth, even though all around him there be loaves.


‘Mamma,’ he replied to her, ‘do not weep, life is paradise, and we are all in paradise, but we don’t want to realize it, and if we did care to realize it, paradise would be established in all the world tomorrow.’


Assurance is offered that as time goes by the world will become more united, that it will form itself into a brotherly communion by shortening distance and transmitting thoughts through the air. Alas, do not believe in such a unification of men. In construing freedom as the multiplication and speedy satisfaction of needs, they distort their own nature, for they engender within themselves many senseless and stupid desires, habits and most absurd inventions.


They live solely for envy, for love of the flesh and for self-conceit.


‘What is hell?’ I argue thus: ‘The suffering of no longer being able to love.’


The white towers and golden domes of the cathedral sparkled in the sapphire sky. In the flowerbeds luxuriant autumn flowers had fallen asleep until morning. The earth’s silence seemed to fuse with that of the heavens, the earth’s mystery came into contact with that of the stars


recalcitrant,


“I am!” I may endure a thousand torments – yet I am, I may writhe under torture – but I am! I may sit in a tower, but I exist, I can see the sun, but even if I cannot see the sun, I know that it exists. And to know that the sun is there – that is already the whole of life.


‘God preserve you, dear boy, from ever asking a woman you love to grant you forgiveness for your guilt! Especially, especially a woman you love, no matter how guilty you are before her! Because women, women, brother, are the devil only knows what, and after all they, at least, are something I know about! Well, just try admitting to a woman your guilt, say something like: “I am guilty, please forgive me, I’m sorry” – immediately you will receive a hail of rebukes! On no account will she forgive you in a simple, straightforward manner, no, she will degrade you to the level of a floor-cloth, she will find things that never even happened, will take everything, forget nothing, add things of her own, and only then forgive.


one twentieth part of my words is true, why, even then it is dreadful! Look, gentlemen, look how our young men shoot themselves: oh, without the slightest of Hamlet’s questions about “what lies beyond”, without so much as an indication of those questions, as though this point concerning the spirit and all that waits for us beyond the grave had long ago been cancelled out within their natures, buried and strewn with sand.


THE CATCHER IN THE RYE, J. D. Salinger


He said he talked to Jesus all the time. Even when he was driving his car. That killed me. I can just see the big phony bastard shifting into first gear and asking Jesus to send him a few more stiffs.


Just because they’re crazy about themself, they think you’re crazy about them, too, and that you’re just dying to do them a favor. It’s sort of funny, in a way.


That’s the thing about girls. Every time they do something pretty, even if they’re not much to look at, or even if they’re sort of stupid, you fall half in love with them, and then you never know where the hell you are. Girls. Jesus Christ. They can drive you crazy. They really can.


you do something too good, then, after a while, if you don’t watch it, you start showing off. And then you’re not as good any more.


“The mark of the immature man is that he wants to die nobly for a cause, while the mark of the mature man is that he wants to live humbly for one.”’


Don’t ever tell anybody anything. If you do, you start missing everybody.


The Count of Monte Cristo (Penguin Classics), Alexandre Dumas and Robin Buss


not the remorse that makes its victims leap up like a Roman raging against his fate, but that bitter, muffled blow that intermittently chimes on the soul and sears it with the memory of some past action, an agonizing wound that lacerates, deeper and deeper until death.


looking towards Marseille; now seated on the shore, listening to the moaning of the sea, as endless as her sorrow, and ceaselessly wondering if it would not be better to lean forward, sink beneath her own weight into the abyss and let herself be swallowed up, rather than to suffer all the cruel uncertainties of hopeless expectation.


His faith had been transient and he lost it, as others do when they achieve success. The difference was that he had not gained by it.


Misfortune is needed to plumb certain mysterious depths in the understanding of men; pressure is needed to explode the charge. My captivity concentrated all my faculties on a single point. They had previously been dispersed, now they clashed in a narrow space; and, as you know, the clash of clouds produces electricity, electricity produces lightning and lightning gives light.’


Learning does not make one learned: there are those who have knowledge and those who have understanding. The first requires memory, the second philosophy.’


what solitude is more vast and more poetic than that of a ship sailing alone on the sea, in the darkness of night and the silence of infinity, under the eye of the Lord?


You understand, Monsieur Bertuccio: trees only give us pleasure because they give shade, and shade itself only pleases us because it is full of reveries and visions.


No one likes a free box as much as a millionaire.


Ideas never die, Sire, and, though they may slumber for a time, they wake up stronger than when they fell asleep.” ’


Hide the diamonds, dull the gold, dampen the rays. Let the rich man rediscover the poor one, the free man the prisoner, and the resurrected man the corpse.’


‘You will pull the dragon’s teeth and trample the lions underfoot, said the Lord.’


‘our poor species can pride itself on the fact that every man thinks himself unhappier than another unfortunate, weeping and moaning beside him.’


Death, according to the care we take to be on good or bad terms with it, is either a friend which will rock us as gently as a nursing mother or an enemy which will savagely tear apart body and soul.


One day, when our world has lived another thousand years, when people have mastered all the destructive forces of nature and harnessed them to the general good of mankind, and when, as you just said, men have learnt the secrets of death, then death will be as sweet and voluptuous as sleep in a lover’s arms.’


there is neither happiness nor misfortune in this world, there is merely the comparison between one state and another, nothing more.


Only someone who has suffered the deepest misfortune is capable of experiencing the heights of felicity.


The Cultural Defense of Nations: A Liberal Theory of Majority Rights (Oxford Constitutional Theory), Liav Orgad


Multiculturalism puts the emphasis not on what people have in common, but on their differences.


By and large, cultural defense policies are implemented through five principal measures: (a) citizenship tests; (b) integration contracts; (c) loyalty oaths; (d) attachment requirements; and (e) language requirements. Alongside these principal measures, some level of incompatibility between the immigrant’s way of life and the host society’s cultural identity has become a ground for exclusion.


the defended culture essentially represents the tastes and preferences of the dominant majority. The underlying message is that liberal states have a fixed national identity, and that there is a correlation between the “state culture” and the “majority culture.”


Liberal thinking and human rights law recognize the right of minority groups to maintain their unique cultural identity. Thus far, majority groups have not been granted a similar right because it is assumed that their culture is not threatened within the state. The majority, so the argument goes, “can take care of itself”; it can use its numerical advantage to perpetuate its culture.


Demographer David Coleman observes that the ratio between majority groups and minority groups in various regions and countries is changing in a manner that “would be an ultimate ‘replacement migration’ of a kind not previously seen over large geographic areas without invasion or force.”


“With larger numbers, populations of foreign origin may feel less need to adapt to local norms, instead becoming more confident in extending their own values, language, or laws.”


It is not just geopolitics and new technology—globalization influences global migration as well. It is too early to determine whether globalization dilutes national identity or enhances it, but it certainly affects public perceptions of migration. Globalization undermines concepts of borders, territory, and sovereignty.89 This is even more apparent in European Member States, whose identities have also been challenged by EU institutions. The combined effect of a bottom-up mass migration and a top-down globalization challenges the traditional concept of sovereignty.


In a sense, drafting immigration requirements is a form of nation-building. A political community, whose members are linked through a common project, is engaged in an attempt to determine the nature of the common project, the essence of the social contract, and the bond (glue, tie, attachment) that binds the people together.


“Cultural defense” takes place by using five legal mechanisms: (a) citizenship tests, (b) language requirements, (c) loyalty oaths, (d) attachment requirements, and (e) integration contracts. Together with other means involved in the naturalization process, such as citizenship ceremonies, immigration law provides a unique platform to reflect on three issues: defining the “we,” setting criteria for identifying the desired “they,” and finding the core to which “they” should subscribe to become part of “us.”


It shows that when nations start to examine what holds a people together, they often conclude that there are more sources of division than unity.


Every sovereign, according to Rousseau, has an unavoidable end: “The body politic, as well as the human body, begins to die as soon as it is born.” Governments do not survive forever. Their death is an inevitable destiny. After all, “if Sparta and Rome perished, what State can hope to endure for ever?” And yet, the body politic differs from the human body. The death of the human body is a matter of nature, but the death of the body politic is a matter of constitutional design: “It is not in men’s power to prolong their own lives; but it is for them to prolong as much as possible the life of the State, by giving it the best possible constitution.”


Cultural defense policies create a Paradox of Liberalism. Liberal democracies, in order to protect what they perceive as a liberal regime, resort to illiberal means that violate the same values they seek to protect. Herein lies the paradox. Either the liberal should tolerate illiberal practices, or turn to illiberal means in order to “liberate” the illiberal. Either choice undermines liberalism. The idea that one should adopt a liberal way of life as a prerequisite for living in a liberal society is, in itself, illiberal. This is because liberalism contains the freedom to choose not to hold liberal beliefs or live a liberal way of life as long as a person’s way of life complies with law and order.


The challenge of liberalism has always been how to promote belief in liberal values and institutions without crossing the line into indoctrination. There is a blessing in liberalism, yet also a risk. The danger of liberalism has its roots in what Philip Hamburger calls “liberal theology.” Liberal theologists expect people to think alike, behave alike, and arrive at similar conclusions about the good life. Hamburger explains that “when pursued by a powerful majority,” liberalism can itself “become a threat to freedom” and, ironically, may become theologically intolerant.29


Everyone who advocates cultural minority rights should recognize their side-effect; cultural minority rights, by definition, yield a distinctive cultural majority. This is the inevitable outcome of multiculturalism.


When society is largely homogenous, the culture of the majority is taken for granted without according it too much attention. The majority hardly notices the pervasiveness of its own culture in the public sphere.


“A healthy nation is as unconscious of its nationality as a healthy man of his bones.”


Hart denies the notion that people who accept legal rules should accept their moral legitimacy; people comply because they accept the validity of a legal rule even if they do not accept its moral truth.


The Dream of a Ridiculous Man: Short Story, Fyodor Dostoyevsky


But I gave up caring about anything, and all the problems disappeared.


I saw clearly that so long as I was still a human being and not nothingness, I was alive and so could suffer,


Dreams, as we all know, are very queer things: some parts are presented with appalling vividness, with details worked up with the elaborate finish of jewellery, while others one gallops through, as it were, without noticing them at all, as, for instance, through space and time.


But does it matter whether it was a dream or reality, if the dream made known to me the truth?


They desired nothing and were at peace; they did not aspire to knowledge of life as we aspire to understand it, because their lives were full.


They began to struggle for separation, for isolation, for individuality, for mine and thine.


Knowledge is higher than feeling, the consciousness of life is higher than life. Science will give us wisdom, wisdom will reveal the laws, and the knowledge of the laws of happiness is higher than happiness.”


At last these people grew weary of their meaningless toil, and signs of suffering came into their faces, and then they proclaimed that suffering was a beauty, for in suffering alone was there meaning.


For I have seen the truth; I have seen and I know that people can be beautiful and happy without losing the power of living on earth. I will not and cannot believe that evil is the normal condition of mankind.


A dream! What is a dream? And is not our life a dream?


The chief thing is to love others like yourself, that’s the great thing, and that’s everything; nothing else is wanted—you will find out at once how to arrange it all. And yet it’s an old truth which has been told and retold a billion times—but it has not formed part of our lives! The consciousness of life is higher than life, the knowledge of the laws of happiness is higher than happiness—that is what one must contend against. And I shall. If only everyone wants it, it can all be arranged at once.


The Mandibles: A Family, 2029–2047: The unputdownable Sunday Times bestselling satirical political fiction novel, Lionel Shriver


money is worth what people feel it’s worth. They accept it in exchange for goods and services because they have faith in it. Economics is closer to religion than science. Without millions of individual citizens believing in a currency, money is colored paper.


So here’s the question: are you worried about what’s actually happening? Because I think you’re more worried about being wrong.”


Only now could he appreciate how much a desire to please imposed distance, created falsity even when a putatively pleasing assertion was perfectly true, and ruined your sense of humor.


Real poverty is about doing what you have to do as opposed to what you want.


Real generosity entails no recompense. It means giving up something you fiercely value and cannot replace.


Precocious was not the same as smart, much less the same as wise, and the perfect opposite of informed—since the more you prided yourself on knowing already the less you listened and the less you learned.


The long view was a defining feature of prosperity. The destitute planned a single step ahead.


The Master and Margarita, Mikhail Bulgakov


Allow me to ask you, then, how can man govern, if he is not only deprived of the opportunity of making a plan for at least some ridiculously short period — well, say, a thousand years - but cannot even vouch for his own tomorrow?


all authority is violence over people,


‘Love leaped out in front of us like a murderer in an alley leaping out of nowhere, and struck us both at once. As lightning strikes, as a Finnish knife strikes!


‘that cannot be: manuscripts don’t burn.’


The city was flooded with festive lights. The flames of lamps played in all the windows, and from everywhere, merging into one dissonant chorus, came hymns of praise.


You uttered your words as if you don’t acknowledge shadows, or evil either. Kindly consider the question: what would your good do if evil did not exist, and what would the earth look like if shadows disappeared from it? Shadows are cast by objects and people. Here is the shadow of my sword. Trees and living beings also have shadows. Do you want to skin the whole earth, tearing all the trees and living things off it, because of your fantasy of enjoying bare light? You’re a fool.’


‘He does not deserve the light, he deserves peace,’ Levi said in a sorrowful voice.


How sad the evening earth! How mysterious the mists over the swamps! He who has wandered in these mists, he who has suffered much before death, he who has flown over this earth bearing on himself too heavy a burden, knows it. The weary man knows it. And without regret he leaves the mists of the earth, its swamps and rivers, with a light heart he gives himself into the hands of death, knowing that she alone can bring him peace.


The Myth of Sisyphus (Penguin Modern Classics), Albert Camus and Justin O&#39;Brien and and James Wood


entails. I have never seen anyone die for the ontological argument. Galileo who held a scientific truth of great importance abjured it with the greatest ease as soon as it endangered his life.


(what is called a reason for living is also an excellent reason for dying).


Solely the balance between evidence and lyricism can allow us to achieve simultaneously emotion and lucidity.


had ‘undermined’ him. A more exact word cannot be imagined. Beginning to think is beginning to be undermined. Society has but little connection with such beginnings.


The body’s judgement is as good as the mind’s and the body shrinks from annihilation. We get into the habit of living before acquiring the habit of thinking.


It is always easy to be logical. It is almost impossible to be logical to the bitter end.


The mind’s deepest desire, even in its most elaborate operations, parallels man’s unconscious feelings in the face of his universe: it is an insistence upon familiarity, an appetite for clarity.


With the exception of professional rationalists, today people despair of true knowledge. If the only significant history of human thought were to be written, it would have to be the history of its successive regrets and its impotences.


At the final stage you teach me that this wondrous and multi-coloured universe can be reduced to the atom and that the atom itself can be reduced to the electron. All this is good and I wait for you to continue. But you tell me of an invisible planetary system in which electrons gravitate around a nucleus. You explain this world to me with an image. I realize then that you have been reduced to poetry: I shall never know.


But what is absurd is the confrontation of the irrational and the wild longing for clarity whose call echoes in the human heart.


At this point of his effort man stands face to face with the irrational. He feels within him his longing for happiness and for reason. The absurd is born of this confrontation between the human need and the unreasonable silence of the world.


In this particular case and on the plane of intelligence, I can therefore say that the Absurd is not in man (if such a metaphor could have a meaning) nor in the world, but in their presence together.


He makes of the absurd the criterion of the other world, whereas it is simply a residue of the experience of this world. ‘In his failure,’ says Kierkegaard, ‘the believer finds his triumph.’


irrational. The important thing, as Abbé Galiani said to Mme d’Epinay, is not to be cured, but to live with one’s ailments.


Seeking what is true is not seeking what is desirable.


don’t know whether this world has a meaning that transcends it. But I know that I do not know that meaning and that it is impossible for me just now to know it. What can a meaning outside my condition mean to me? I can understand only in human terms.


That revolt gives life its value. Spread out over the whole length of a life, it restores its majesty to that life. To a man devoid of blinkers, there is no finer sight than that of the intelligence at grips with a reality that transcends it. The sight of human pride is unequalled.


twenty years of life and experience. But with an inconsistency odd in such an alert race, the Greeks claimed that those who died young were beloved of the gods. And that is true only if you are willing to believe that entering the ridiculous world of the gods is for ever losing the purest of joys which is feeling, and feeling on this earth.


There is but one moral code that the absurd man can accept, the one that is not separated from God: the one that is dictated. But it so happens that he lives outside that God.


That innocence is to be feared. ‘Everything is permitted,’ exclaims Ivan Karamazov. That, too, smacks of the absurd. But on condition that it be not taken in the vulgar sense. I don’t know whether or not it has been sufficiently pointed out that it is not an outburst of relief or of joy but rather a bitter acknowledgement of a fact.


writer has some hope even if he is not appreciated. He assumes that his works will bear witness to what he was. At best the actor will leave us a photograph, and nothing of what he was himself, his gestures and his silences, his gasping or his panting with love, will come down to us. For him, not to be known is not to act, and not acting is dying a hundred times with all the creatures he would have brought to life or resuscitated.


If the world were clear, art would not exist.


There is so much stubborn hope in the human heart. The most destitute men often end up by accepting illusion. That approval prompted by the need for peace inwardly parallels the existential consent. There are thus gods of light and idols of mud. But it is essential to find the middle path leading to the faces of man.


All that remains is a fate whose outcome alone is fatal. Outside of that single fatality of death, everything, joy or happiness, is liberty. A world remains of which man is the sole master. What bound him was the illusion of another world.


This universe henceforth without a master seems to him neither sterile nor futile. Each atom of that stone, each mineral flake of that night-filled mountain, in itself forms a world. The struggle itself towards the heights is enough to fill a man’s heart. One must imagine Sisyphus happy.


The Odyssey (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition), Homer and Bernard Knox and and Robert Fagles


Sing to me of the man, Muse, the man of twists and turns


“Ah how shameless —the way these mortals blame the gods.      From us alone, they say, come all their miseries, yes,      but they themselves, with their own reckless ways,  40  compound their pains beyond their proper share.


You must not cling to your boyhood any longer —      it’s time you were a man.


Few sons are the equals of their fathers; 310  most fall short, all too few surpass them.


As the sun sprang up, leaving the brilliant waters in its wake,      climbing the bronze sky to shower light on immortal gods


“Hard-hearted      you are, you gods! You unrivaled lords of jealousy


Nevertheless I long —I pine, all my days —      to travel home and see the dawn of my return.      And if a god will wreck me yet again on the wine-dark sea,      I can bear that too, with a spirit tempered to endure.


Much have I suffered, labored long and hard by now      in the waves and wars. Add this to the total —      bring the trial on!”


No finer, greater gift in the world than that . . .      when man and woman possess their home, two minds,      two hearts that work as one. Despair to their enemies,      a joy to all their friends. Their own best claim to glory.”


Mine is a rugged land but good for raising sons —      and I myself, I know no sweeter sight on earth      than a man’s own native country.


nothing is as sweet as a man’s own country,      his own parents, even though he’s settled down  40  in some luxurious house, off in a foreign land      and far from those who bore him.


‘Cyclops —      if any man on the face of the earth should ask you 560  who blinded you, shamed you so —say Odysseus,      raider of cities, he gouged out your eye,      Laertes’ son who makes his home in Ithaca!’


A terror too, that sword-belt sweeping across his chest, 700  a baldric of solid gold emblazoned with awesome work . . .      bears and ramping boars and lions with wild, fiery eyes,      and wars, routs and battles, massacres, butchered men.      May the craftsman who forged that masterpiece —      whose skills could conjure up a belt like that —      never forge another!


As a man aches for his evening meal when all day long      his brace of wine-dark oxen have dragged the bolted plowshare      down a fallow field —how welcome the setting sun to him,      the going home to supper, yes, though his knees buckle,      struggling home at last.


Pontonous mixed the heady, honeyed wine      and hovering closely, poured full rounds for all.      And from where they sat they tipped libations out      to the happy gods who rule the vaulting skies.


The swaggering suitors clustered, milling round him,      welcome words on their lips, and murder in their hearts.


—just as the old moon dies      and the new moon rises into life —Odysseus will return!”


Ghosts, look, thronging the entrance, thronging the court,      go trooping down to the world of death and darkness!      The sun is blotted out of the sky —look there —      a lethal mist spreads all across the earth!”


The old man and the sea, Ernest Hemingway


I try not to borrow. First you borrow. Then you beg."


It is better to be lucky. But I would rather be exact. Then when luck comes you are ready.


The thousand times that he had proved it meant nothing. Now he was proving it again.


He was a very big Mako shark built to swim as fast as the fastest fish in the sea and everything about him was beautiful except his jaws.


"But man is not made for defeat," he said. "A man can be destroyed but not defeated."


You killed him for pride and because you are a fisherman. You loved him when he was alive and you loved him after. It you love him, it is not a sin to kill him. Or is it more?


Now is no time to think of what you do not have. Think of what you can do with what there is.


The Picture of Dorian Gray (Penguin Classics S.), Oscar Wilde and Robert Mighal


Diversity of opinion about a work of art shows that the work is new, complex, and vital.


We can forgive a man for making a useful thing as long as he does not admire it. The only excuse for making a useless thing is that one admires it intensely.


It is silly of you, for there is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about.


But beauty, real beauty, ends where an intellectual expression begins.


It is better not to be different from one’s fellows. The ugly and the stupid have the best of it in this world. They can sit at their ease and gape at the play. If they know nothing of victory, they are at least spared the knowledge of defeat. They live as we all should live, undisturbed, indifferent, and without disquiet. They neither bring ruin upon others, nor ever receive it from alien hands.


Those who are faithful know only the trivial side of love: it is the faithless who know love’s tragedies.’


‘Because to influence a person is to give him one’s own soul. He does not think his natural thoughts, or burn with his natural passions. His virtues are not real to him. His sins, if there are such things as sins, are borrowed. He becomes an echo of some one else’s music, an actor of a part that has not been written for him.


‘Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as nothing can cure the senses but the soul.’


Beauty is a form of Genius – is higher, indeed, than Genius, as it needs no explanation.


‘I adore simple pleasures,’ said Lord Henry. ‘They are the last refuge of the complex.


Philanthropic people lose all sense of humanity. It is their distinguishing characteristic.’


Nowadays people know the price of everything, and the value of nothing.’


Children begin by loving their parents; as they grow older they judge them; sometimes they forgive them.


When we are happy we are always good, but when we are good we are not always happy.’


There is a luxury in self-reproach. When we blame ourselves we feel that no one else has a right to blame us. It is the confession, not the priest, that gives us absolution.


The past could always be annihilated. Regret, denial, or forgetfulness could do that. But the future was inevitable. There were passions in him that would find their terrible outlet, dreams that would make the shadow of their real evil.


Dorian Gray had been poisoned by a book. There were moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could realize his conception of the beautiful.


One’s days were too brief to take the burden of another’s errors on one’s shoulders. Each man lived his own life, and paid his own price for living it. The only pity was one had to pay so often for a single fault. One had to pay over and over again, indeed. In her dealings with man Destiny never closed her accounts.


you. You are the type of what the age is searching for, and what it is afraid it has found. I am so glad that you have never done anything, never carved a statue, or painted a picture, or produced anything outside of yourself! Life has been your art. You have set yourself to music. Your days are your sonnets.’


The books that the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame.


The Plague (Penguin Modern Classics), Albert Camus and Professor Tony Judt and and Robin Buss


The press, which had had so much to say about the business of the rats, fell silent. This is because rats die in the street and people in their bedrooms; and newspapers are only concerned with the street.


There have been as many plagues in the world as there have been wars, yet plagues and wars always find people equally unprepared.


Stupidity always carries doggedly on, as people would notice if they were not always thinking about themselves.


They considered themselves free and no one will ever be free as long as there is plague, pestilence and famine.


But what are a hundred million deaths? When one has fought a war, one hardly knows any more what a dead person is. And if a dead man has no significance unless one has seen him dead, a hundred million bodies spread through history are just a mist drifting through the imagination.


Athenians built on the seashore when they were stricken with illness. The dead were brought there at night, but there was too little space and the living would fight each other with burning torches to put their loved ones on the pyres, engaging in bloody struggles rather than abandon their dead bodies on the beach. You could imagine the pyres glowing in front of the calm dark water, the torches struggling in a darkness crackling with sparks, and thick, poisonous fumes rising towards the waiting sky.


foundering halfway between the abyss and the peak, they drifted rather than lived, given up to aimless days and sterile memories,


‘Do you believe in God, doctor?’ Once again, the question was asked quite naturally, but this time Rieux hesitated. ‘No, but what does that mean? I am in darkness, trying to see the light. I stopped a long time ago thinking there was anything unusual in that.’ ‘Isn’t that the thing that makes you different from Paneloux?’ ‘I don’t think so. Paneloux is a scholar. He has not seen enough people die and that is why he speaks in the name of eternal truths. But the least little country priest who administers to his parishioners and who has heard the breath of a dying man thinks as I do. He would treat suffering, not try to demonstrate what a fine thing it is.’


since the order of the world is governed by death, perhaps it is better for God that we should not believe in Him and struggle with all our strength against death, without raising our eyes to heaven and to His silence.’


The evil in the world comes almost always from ignorance, and goodwill can cause as much damage as ill-will if it is not enlightened.


While it is right that the libertine should be cast aside, one could not understand the suffering of the child. And, in truth, there was nothing on earth more important than the suffering of a child and the horror that this suffering brings with it and the explanation that had to be found for it. In other aspects of life, God made everything easy for us, so in that sense there was no merit in religion.


It would have been easy for him to say that the eternity of joy that awaited the child might compensate for his suffering, but in truth he did not know about that. Who in fact could assert that an eternity of delight could compensate for an instant of human suffering? Surely not a Christian, whose Master had endured pain in his limbs and in his soul. No, when faced with the suffering of a child the priest would remain with his back to the wall, loyal to the painful disjunction symbolized by the cross.


Today, God was doing His creatures the favour of putting them in such a misfortune that they were obliged to rediscover and take on themselves the greatest virtue, which was that of All or Nothing.


All I say is that on this earth there are pestilences and there are victims – and as far as possible one must refuse to be on the side of the pestilence.


‘Precisely. Can one be a saint without God: that is the only concrete question that I know today.’


A heavy splash told him that Tarrou had dived in. Rieux turned onto his back and stayed motionless, looking up at the bowl of the sky, full of moon and stars. He took deep breaths. Then the sound of something striking the water became more and more distinct, strangely clear in the silence and loneliness of the night. Tarrou was swimming towards him and Rieux could soon hear his breathing. He turned round, came alongside his friend and swam with the same rhythm. Tarrou was moving forward more powerfully than he was and he had to speed up. For a few minutes they swam on with equal stokes and equal strength, alone, far from the world, finally free of the town and the plague.


there was always an hour of the day or night when a man was a coward and that he was afraid of nothing but that moment.


This human form, which had been so close to him, was now pierced with spears, burnt up with a superhuman fire and twisted by all the malevolent winds of the skies; it was sinking before his eyes into the waters of the plague and he could do nothing to prevent its wreck.


there is more in men to admire than to despise.


The Prince (Penguin Great Ideas), Niccolo Machiavelli and Anthony Grafton


as I said, they are scattered and poor. And here it has to be noted that men must be either pampered or crushed, because they can get revenge for small injuries but not for grievous ones.


one must never allow disorder to continue so as to escape a war.


whoever is responsible for another’s becoming powerful ruins himself, because this power is brought into being either by ingenuity or by force, and both of these are suspect to the one who has become powerful.


Men do you harm either because they fear you or because they hate you.


Violence must be inflicted once for all; people will then forget what it tastes like and so be less resentful. Benefits must be conferred gradually; and in that way they will taste better.


The nature of man is such that people consider themselves put under an obligation as much by the benefits they confer as by those they receive.


friendship which is bought with money and not with greatness and nobility of mind is paid for, but it does not last and it yields nothing.


Men worry less about doing an injury to one who makes himself loved than to one who makes himself feared. For love is secured by a bond of gratitude which men, wretched creatures that they are, break when it is to their advantage to do so; but fear is strengthened by a dread of punishment which is always effective.


The Psychology of Money: Timeless lessons on wealth, greed, and happiness, Morgan Housel


The premise of this book is that doing well with money has a little to do with how smart you are and a lot to do with how you behave. And behavior is hard to teach, even to really smart people.


financial success is not a hard science. It’s a soft skill, where how you behave is more important than what you know.


Spreadsheets can model the historic frequency of big stock market declines. But they can’t model the feeling of coming home, looking at your kids, and wondering if you’ve made a mistake that will impact their lives.


At a party given by a billionaire on Shelter Island, Kurt Vonnegut informs his pal, Joseph Heller, that their host, a hedge fund manager, had made more money in a single day than Heller had earned from his wildly popular novel Catch-22 over its whole history. Heller responds, “Yes, but I have something he will never have … enough.”


Sue ends up with $435,551. Jim has $257,386. Tom $234,476. Sue wins by a mile. There were 1,428 months between 1900 and 2019. Just over 300 of them were during a recession. So by keeping her cool during just the 22% of the time the economy was in or near a recession, Sue ends up with almost three-quarters more money than Jim or Tom.


A good definition of an investing genius is the man or woman who can do the average thing when all those around them are going crazy.


A trap many investors fall into is what I call “historians as prophets” fallacy: An overreliance on past data as a signal to future conditions in a field where innovation and change are the lifeblood of progress.


Growth is driven by compounding, which always takes time. Destruction is driven by single points of failure, which can happen in seconds, and loss of confidence, which can happen in an instant.


The Rebel (Penguin Modern Classics), Albert Camus and Olivier Todd and and Anthony Bower


If one believes in nothing, if nothing makes sense, if we can assert no value whatsoever, everything is permissible and nothing is important.


Suicide and murder are thus two aspects of a single system, the system of an unhappy intellect which rather than suffer limitation chooses the dark victory which annihilates earth and heaven.


Rebellion arises from the spectacle of the irrational coupled with an unjust and incomprehensible condition.


Man is the only creature who refuses to be what he is. We shall try to determine whether this refusal must inevitably lead him to the destruction of others and of himself, if every rebellion must end in the defence of universal murder, or if, on the contrary, without claiming an impossible innocence, it can furnish the principle of a limited culpability.


What is a rebel? A man who says no: but whose refusal does not imply a renunciation. He is also a man who says yes as soon as he begins to think for himself.


In every act of rebellion, the man concerned experiences not only a feeling of revulsion at the infringement of his rights but also a complete and spontaneous loyalty to certain aspects of himself.


Rebellion, though apparently negative since it creates nothing, is profoundly positive in that it reveals the part of man which must always be defended.


The spirit of revolt can only exist in a society where a theoretic equality conceals great factual inequalities.


Rebellion is the common ground on which every man bases his first values. I rebel – therefore we exist.


An act of rebellion seems to him like a demand for clarity and unity. The most elementary rebellion, paradoxically, expresses an aspiration to order.


In the same way, if the metaphysical rebel ranges himself against a power whose existence he simultaneously affirms, he only admits the existence of this power at the very instant when he calls it into question. And then he draws this superior power into the same humiliating adventure as himself – the power being equally as ineffectual as our condition. He subjects it to the power of our refusal, bends it to the unbending part of human nature, forcibly integrates it into an existence which we render absurd, and finally drags it from its refuge outside time and involves it in history – very far from the eternal stability that it can only find in the unanimous consent of all men. Thus rebellion affirms that, on this level, any superior being is contradictory if nothing else.


When the throne of God is overthrown, the rebel realizes that it is now his own responsibility to create the justice, order, and unity that he sought in vain within his own condition and, in this way, to justify the fall of God.


Every ethic conceived in solitude implies the exercise of power.


In prison, dreams have no limits and reality is no curb. Intelligence in chains loses in lucidity what it gains in intensity.


the brief and vivid union of a tempestuous heart united to the tempest. (Lermontov)


life, he is coherent as a character. But a character implies a public; the dandy can only play a part by setting himself up in opposition. He can only be sure of his own existence by finding it in the expression of others’ faces. Other people are his mirror. A mirror that quickly becomes obscured,


From Paul to Stalin, the popes who have chosen Caesar have prepared the way for Caesars who quickly learn to despise popes.


When man submits God to moral judgement, he kills Him in his own heart.


nihilism is the inability to believe, then its most serious symptom is not found in atheism, but in the inability to believe in what is, to see what is happening, and to live life as it is offered.


Not faith but deeds – that, according to Nietzsche, is Christ’s message. From then on, the history of Christianity is nothing but a long betrayal of this message. The New Testament is already corrupt, and from the time of Paul until the Councils subservience to faith has led to the obliteration of deeds.


Christianity believes that it is fighting against nihilism because it gives the world a sense of direction, while it is nihilist itself in so far as it prevents, in imposing an imaginary meaning on life, the discovery of its real meaning: ‘Every Church is a stone rolled on to the tomb of the man-god; it tried to prevent the resurrection, by force.’


Nietzsche is exactly what he recognized himself as being: the most acute manifestation of nihilism’s conscience.


salvation of man is not achieved in God, it must be achieved on earth. Since the world has no direction, man, from the moment that he accepts this, must give it one which will lead eventually to a superior type of humanity.


In theory, the word revolution retains the meaning that it has in astronomy. It is a movement which describes a complete circle, which leads from one form of government to another after a total transition.


Crassus crucified thousands of slaves. The six thousand crosses which, after such a just rebellion, staked out the road from Capua to Rome, demonstrated to the servile crowd that there is no equality in the world of power and that the masters calculate, at a usurious rate, the price of their own blood.


Morality, when it is formal, devours.


When principles fail, men have only one way to save them and to preserve their faith, which is to die for them.


If, on the first morning of the world, under the empty sky, there is only a master and a slave; even if there is only the bond of master and slave between a transcendent god and mankind, then there can be no other law in this world but the law of force. Only a god, or a principle above the master and the slave, could intervene and make men’s history more than a simple chronicle of victories and defeats.


The master, to his detriment, is recognized in his autonomy by a consciousness which he himself does not recognize as autonomous. Therefore he cannot be satisfied and his autonomy is only negative. Mastery is a blind alley. Since, moreover, he cannot renounce mastery and become a slave again, the eternal destiny of masters is to live unsatisfied or to be killed.


The master serves no other purpose in history but to arouse servile consciousness, the only form of consciousness that really makes history.


A nihilist for Hegel was only a sceptic who had no other escape but contradiction or philosophic suicide. But he himself gave birth to another type of nihilist who, making boredom into a principle of action, identified suicide with philosophic murder.* It was at this point that the terrorists were born who decided that it was necessary to kill and die in order to exist, because mankind and history could only be created by sacrifice and murder.


‘The revolutionary is a man condemned in advance. He must have neither romantic relationships nor object to engage his feelings. He should even cast off his own name. Every part of him should be concentrated in one single passion: the revolution.’ If history is, in fact, independent of all principles and comprised only of a struggle between revolution and counter-revolution, there is no other way out but to espouse wholeheartedly one of the two, and either die or be resurrected. Nechayev pursues this logic to the bitter end. For the first time, with him, revolution is going to be explicitly separated from love and friendship.


Those who love, friends or lovers, know that love is not only a blinding flash, but also a long and painful struggle in the darkness for the realization of definitive recognition and reconciliation.


Men of action, when they are without faith, have never believed in anything but action.


Progress, paradoxically, can be used to justify conservatism. A draft drawn on confidence in the future, it allows the master to have a clear conscience. The slave and those whose present life is miserable and who can find no consolation in the heavens, are assured that at least the future belongs to them. The future is the only kind of property that the masters willingly concede to the slaves.


Marx used the short-sighted philosophy of his time. What he wishes to say can be defined on other planes.


And yet Marx saw the danger of this particular form of quietism. Power either does not wait or else it waits indefinitely. A day comes when it must be seized and it is the exact definition of this day which remains of doubtful clarity to all readers of Marx. On this point he never stops contradicting himself.


fear of death is a luxury which is felt far more by the idler than the worker who is stifled by his own occupation.


It has, in fact, been possible to prove that the most efficacious revolutionary or trade union asset has always been the existence of a working-class élite who have not been sterilized by hunger.


Poverty and degeneration have never ceased to be what they were before Marx’s time, and what he did not want to admit that they were despite all his observations: factors contributing to servitude not to revolution.


the two traditional forms of oppression known to humanity – oppression by armed force and by wealth – Simone Weil adds a third – oppression by occupation. ‘One can abolish the opposition between the buyer and the seller of work’, she wrote, ‘without abolishing the opposition between those who dispose of the machine and those of whom the machine disposes.’


He roundly declares, from 1902 on, that the workers will never elaborate an independent ideology on their own. He denies the spontaneity of the masses. Socialist doctrine supposes a scientific basis which only the intellectuals can give


Lenin, therefore, begins from the firm and indisputable principle that the State dies as soon as the socialization of the means of production is achieved, and the exploiting class has consequently been suppressed. Yet, in the same pamphlet, he ends by justifying the preservation, even after the socialization of the means of production and, without any predictable end, of the dictatorship of a revolutionary fraction over the rest of the people. The pamphlet, which makes continuous reference to the experiences of the Commune, flatly contradicts the contemporary federalist and anti-authoritarian ideas which produced the Commune: and it is equally opposed to the optimistic forecasts of Marx and Engels. The reason for this is clear; Lenin had not forgotten that the Commune failed.


Already we can perceive the contradiction of the Stalinist régime in conflict with its official philosophy. Either this régime has realized the classless Socialist society and the maintenance of a formidable apparatus of repression is not justified in Marxist terms, or it has not realized the classless society and has therefore proved that Marxist doctrine is erroneous and, in particular, that the socialization of the means of production does not mean the disappearance of classes.


How rapid will be the development towards this higher phase of communism when each shall receive according to his needs? ‘That, we do not and cannot know … We have no gifts which allow us to solve these questions.’ ‘For the sake of greater clarity’, Lenin affirms with his customary arbitrariness, ‘it has never been vouchsafed to any communist to guarantee the advent of the higher phase of communism.’ It can be said that, at this point, freedom definitely died.


Under the easily predictable pressure of adverse imperialism, the imperialism of justice was born, in reality, with Lenin. But imperialism, even the imperialism of justice, has no other end but defeat or world empire. Until then, it has no other means but injustice.


Pseudo-revolutionary mystification has now acquired a formula: all freedom must be crushed in order to conquer the empire and one day the empire will be the equivalent of freedom. And so the way to unity passes through totality.


If the only hope of nihilism lies in thinking that millions of slaves can one day constitute a humanity which will be freed forever, then history is nothing but a desperate dream.


Then man takes refuge in the concept of the permanence of the party in the same way that he formerly prostrated himself before the altar. That is why the era which dares to claim that it is the most rebellious that has ever existed only offers a choice of various types of conformity. The real passion of the twentieth century is servitude.


living man can be enslaved and reduced to the historic condition of an object. But if he dies in refusing to be enslaved, he reaffirms the existence of another kind of human nature which refuses to be classified as an object. That is why the accused is never produced and killed before the eyes of the world unless he consents to say that his death is just and unless he conforms to the empire of objects. One must die dishonoured or no longer exist – neither in life nor in death.


is not legitimate to identify the ends of Fascism with the ends of Russian communism. The first represents the exaltation of the executioner by the executioner; the second, more dramatic in concept, the exaltation of the executioner by the victim. The former never dreamed of liberating all men, but only of liberating a few by subjugating the rest. The latter, in its most profound principle, aims at liberating all men by provisionally enslaving them all.


It is difficult to return to the places of one’s early happiness. The young girls in the flower of their youth still laugh and chatter on the seashore, but he who watches them gradually loses his right to love them, just as those he has loved lose the power to be loved.


Every act of creation denies, by its mere existence, the world of master and slave. The appalling society of tyrants and slaves in which we survive will only find its death and transfiguration on the level of creation.


For it is now a question of deciding if it is possible to kill someone, whose resemblance to ourselves we have at last recognized and whose identity we have just sanctified. When we have only just conquered solitude, must we then re-establish it definitively by legitimizing the act which isolates everything?


To force solitude on a man who has just come to understand that he is not alone, is that not the definitive crime against man?


The rebel has only one way of reconciling himself with his act of murder if he allows himself to be led into performing it: to accept his own death and sacrifice.


The consequence of rebellion, on the contrary, is to refuse to legitimize murder because rebellion, in principle, is a protest against death.


rebellion exists, it is because falsehood, injustice, and violence are part of the rebel’s condition. He cannot, therefore, absolutely claim not to kill or lie, without renouncing his rebellion and accepting, once and for all, evil and murder. But nor can he agree to kill and lie, since the inverse reasoning which would justify murder and violence would also destroy the reasons for his insurrection. Thus the rebel can never find peace. He knows what is good and, despite himself, does evil.


a day comes when a machine capable of a hundred operations, operated by one man creates one sole object. This man, on a different scale, will have partially rediscovered the power of creation which he possessed in the days of the artisan. The anonymous producer then draws nearer to the creator.


Whatever we may do, excess will always keep its place in the heart of man, in the place where solitude is found. We all carry within us our places of exile, our crimes, and our ravages. But our task is not to unleash them on the world; it is to fight them in ourselves and in others. Rebellion, the secular will not to surrender of which Barrès speaks, is still, today, at the basis of the struggle. Origin of form, source of real life, it keeps us always erect in the savage formless movement of history.


he who dedicates himself to the duration of his life, to the house he builds, to the dignity of mankind, dedicates himself to the earth and reaps from it the harvest which sows its seed and sustains the world again and again.


Rebellion indefatigably confronts evil, from which it can only derive a new impetus. Man can master, in himself, everything that should be mastered. He should rectify in creation everything that can be rectified. And after he has done so, children will still die unjustly even in a perfect society. Even by his greatest effort, man can only propose to diminish, arithmetically, the sufferings of the world.


without surrendering to the arrogance of blasphemy. Then we understand that rebellion cannot exist without a strange form of love. Those who find no rest in God or in history are condemned to live for those who, like themselves, cannot live: in fact, for the humiliated. The most pure form of the movement of rebellion is thus crowned with the heart-rending cry of Karamazov: if all are not saved, what good is the salvation of one only? Thus Catholic prisoners, in the prison cells of Spain, refuse communion today because the priests of the régime have made it obligatory in certain prisons. These lonely witnesses to the crucifixion of innocence refuse salvation, too, if it must be paid for by injustice and oppression. This insane generosity is the generosity of rebellion,


Around the devouring flames, shadows writhe in mortal combat for an instant of time and then as suddenly disappear and the blind, fingering their eyelids, cry out that this is history.


At this moment, when each of us must fit an arrow to his bow and enter the lists anew, to reconquer, within history and in spite of it, that which he owns already, the thin yield of his fields, the brief love of this earth, at this moment when at last a man is born, it is time to forsake our age and its adolescent rages. The bow bends; the wood complains. At the moment of supreme tension, there will leap into flight an unswerving arrow, a shaft that is inflexible and free.


The Sun Also Rises: The Original 1926 Unabridged and Complete Edition: A Timeless Classic of Love, Loss, and the Lost Generation (Grapevine Edition), Ernest Hemingway


“Listen, Robert, going to another country doesn’t make any difference. I’ve tried all that. You can’t get away from yourself by moving from one place to another. There’s nothing to that.”


It is awfully easy to be hard-boiled about everything in the daytime, but at night it is another thing.


The Third Policeman: A Novel, Flann O&#39;Brien


It is a curious enigma that so great a mind would question the most obvious realities and object even to things scientifically demonstrated (such as the sequence of day and night) while believing absolutely in his own fantastic explanations of the same phenomena.


‘Your talk,’ I said, ‘is surely the handiwork of wisdom because not one word of it do I understand.’


‘What is a sheep only millions of little bits of sheepness whirling around and doing intricate convolutions inside the sheep? What else is it but that?’


Robbing me of the reassurance of my eyesight, it was disintegrating my bodily personality into a flux of colour, smell, recollection, desire – all the strange uncounted essences of terrestrial and spiritual existence.


Or perhaps I would be an influence that prevails in water, something sea-borne and far away, some certain arrangement of sun, light and water unknown and unbeheld, something far-from-usual. There are in the great world whirls of fluid and vaporous existences obtaining in their own unpassing time, unwatched and uninterpreted, valid only in their essential un-understandable mystery, justified only in their eyeless and mindless immeasurability, unassailable in their actual abstraction; of the inner quality of such a thing I might well in my own time be the true quintessential pith.


I might belong to a lonely shore or be the agony of the sea when it bursts upon it in despair.


The Trial (Penguin Modern Classics), Franz Kafka and Idris Parry


Anyway, they are talking about things they don’t understand at all. Their certainty is possible only because of their stupidity.


Thus Spoke Zarathustra, Friedrich Nietzsche and R. J. Hollingdale


the secret of realizing the greatest fruitfulness and the greatest enjoyment of existence is: to live dangerously! Build your cities on the slopes of Vesuvius! Send your ships out into uncharted seas! Live in conflict with your equals and with yourselves! Be robbers and ravagers as long as you cannot be rulers and owners, you men of knowledge!


The Superman, the will to the Superman, the will to power and self-overcoming. Live dangerously! Amor fati, eternal recurrence, total affirmation of life. The great noontide. These are the slogans, the ‘signs’, by which Nietzsche surmounted his nihilism and resolved his crisis.


In truth, man is a polluted river. One must be a sea, to receive a polluted river and not be defiled.


What is the greatest thing you can experience? It is the hour of the great contempt. The hour in which even your happiness grows loathsome to you, and your reason and your virtue also. The hour when you say: ‘What good is my happiness? It is poverty and dirt and a miserable ease. But my happiness should justify existence itself!’


Man is a rope, fastened between animal and Superman – a rope over an abyss.


There have always been many sickly people among those who invent fables and long for God: they have a raging hate for the enlightened man and for that youngest of virtues which is called honesty.


I no longer feel as you do: this cloud which I see under me, this blackness and heaviness at which I laugh – precisely this is your thunder-cloud.


He who climbs upon the highest mountains laughs at all tragedies, real or imaginary.


There is always a certain madness in love. But also there is always a certain method in madness.


Just look at these superfluous people! They acquire wealth and make themselves poorer with it.


Innumerable are these small and pitiable men; and raindrops and weeds have already brought about the destruction of many a proud building.


I see you wearied by poisonous flies, I see you bloodily torn in a hundred places; and your pride refuses even to be angry. They want blood from you in all innocence, their bloodless souls thirst for blood – and therefore they sting in all innocence.


You are too proud to kill these sweet-toothed creatures. But take care that it does not become your fate to bear all their poisonous injustice!


If you want a friend, you must also be willing to wage war for him: and to wage war, you must be capable of being an enemy.


In your friend you should possess your best enemy. Your heart should feel closest to him when you oppose him.


It is more noble to declare yourself wrong than to maintain you are right, especially when you are right. Only you must be rich enough for it.


You should build beyond yourself. But first you must be built yourself, square-built in body and soul.


In your death, your spirit and your virtue should still glow like a sunset glow around the earth: otherwise yours is a bad death.


Truly, I do not like them, the compassionate who are happy in their compassion: they are too lacking in shame.


Great obligations do not make a man grateful, they make him resentful; and if a small kindness is not forgotten it becomes a gnawing worm.


if you have a suffering friend, be a resting-place for his suffering, but a resting-place like a hard bed, a camp-bed: thus you will serve him best.


You love your virtue as the mother her child; but when was it heard of a mother wanting to be paid for her love?


others are proud of their handful of righteousness and for its sake commit wanton outrage upon all things: so that the world is drowned in their unrighteousness.


there are those who like posing and think: Virtue is a sort of pose. Their knees are always worshipping and their hands are glorifications of virtue, but their heart knows nothing of it.


You preachers of equality, thus from you the tyrant-madness of impotence cries for ‘equality’: thus your most secret tyrant-appetite disguises itself in words of virtue.


It is night: now do all leaping fountains speak louder. And my soul too is a leaping fountain.


‘He who shot the doctrine of “will to existence” at truth certainly did not hit the truth: this will – does not exist! ‘For what does not exist cannot will; but that which is in existence, how could it still want to come into existence? ‘Only where life is, there is also will: not will to life, but – so I teach you – will to power!


Truly, I say to you: Unchanging good and evil does not exist! From out of themselves they must overcome themselves again and again. You exert power with your values and doctrines of good and evil, you assessors of values; and this is your hidden love and the glittering, trembling, and overflowing of your souls.


Let us speak of this, you wisest men, even if it is a bad thing. To be silent is worse; all suppressed truths become poisonous.


In truth, I have often laughed at the weaklings who think themselves good because their claws are blunt!


The men of the present, to whom my heart once drove me, are strange to me and a mockery; and I have been driven from fatherlands and motherlands. So now I love only my children’s land, the undiscovered land in the furthest sea: I bid my sails seek it and seek it. I will make amends to my children for being the child of my fathers: and to all the future – for this present!


Already I have seen the poets transformed; I have seen them direct their glance upon themselves.


And even when the long twilight and the weariness unto death appears, you will not set in our heaven, you advocate of life! You have shown us new stars and new glories of the night; truly, you have spread out laughter itself above us like a motley canopy.


live at the foot of my heights: how high are my peaks? No one has yet told me. But I know my valleys well.’


‘You are treading your path of greatness: now it must call up all your courage that there is no longer a path behind you!


I know my fate (he said at last with sadness). Well then! I am ready. My last solitude has just begun. Ah, this sorrowful, black sea beneath me! Ah, this brooding reluctance! Ah, destiny and sea! Now I have to go down to you! I stand before my highest mountain and my longest wandering: therefore I must first descend deeper than I have ever descended, – deeper into pain than I have ever descended, down to its blackest stream! So my destiny will have it. Well then! I am ready. Whence arise the highest mountains? I once asked. Then I learned that they arise from the sea. This testimony is written into their stones and into the sides of their summits. The highest must arise to its height from the deepest.


we bear loyally what we have been given upon hard shoulders over rugged mountains! And when we sweat we are told: ‘Yes, life is hard to bear!’ But only man is hard to bear! That is because he bears too many foreign things upon his shoulders. Like the camel, he kneels down and lets himself be well laden.


‘You shall not steal! You shall not kill!’ – such words were once called holy; in their presence people bowed their knees and their heads and removed their shoes. But I ask you: Where have there ever been better thieves and killers in the world than such holy words have been?


But to make an end requires more courage than to make a new verse: all physicians and poets know that.


I have always found the badly-paired to be the most revengeful: they make everybody suffer for the fact that they are no longer single.


With whom does the greatest danger for the whole human future lie? Is it not with the good and just? – with those who say and feel in their hearts: ‘We already know what is good and just, we possess it too; woe to those who are still searching for it!’ And whatever harm the wicked may do, the harm the good do is the most harmful harm!


Wait Until Spring, Bandini (Canons), John Fante and Dan Fante


Such eyes for a wife! They saw all he was and all he hoped to be, but they never saw his soul.


When McKinsey Comes to Town: The Hidden Influence of the World&#39;s Most Powerful Consulting Firm, Walt Bogdanich and Michael Forsythe


John J. Lawler, who taught in the University of Illinois’s School of Employment and Labor Relations, believes management consultants mainly serve to legitimize the goals of their clients.85 “Clients like to be told they are doing the right thing,” Lawler said, adding that management techniques viewed as best practices “are very often propagated by consulting firms and thus these techniques become largely institutionalized in the business world.”


McKinsey was not held to account for what happened at U.S. Steel and Disneyland. No one sued the firm. No government agency accused it of wrongdoing. Consultants were simply doing what they were paid to do: give advice, not orders.


“it is easier and more effective to train outstanding people in their formative years.”10 He didn’t want consultants offering advice filtered through their prior business experience or, worse yet, their intuition.


“This is the banality of evil, M.B.A. edition,”


“I could not come into work every day knowing everything I had worked my entire life for—all of it was being used to make other people’s lives worse.”


Like so many chain-smokers, McKinsey could not resist the lure of cigarettes. The profits were too addictive.


For a firm “committed to protecting the planet,” McKinsey counts at least seventeen mining and fossil fuel companies among its biggest clients. Collectively, those clients earned McKinsey hundreds of millions of dollars in recent years, according to internal records.


“Securitization was based on the premise that a fool was born every minute,”61 Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel Prize–winning economist at Columbia University, said in October 2008. “Globalization meant that there was a global landscape on which they could search for those fools—and they found them everywhere.”


White Nights (Penguin Little Black Classics), Fyodor Dostoyevsky and Ronald Meyer


It was a wonderful night, the kind of night, dear reader, which is only possible when we are young.


Somehow I can’t help but be reminded of that weak and sickly girl, at whom you sometimes look with pity, sometimes with a compassionate love, and sometimes you simply do not notice her, but then suddenly, for a moment, she somehow, unexpectedly, becomes inexplicably, wonderfully beautiful, and you, startled and intoxicated, unwittingly ask yourself: What power caused those sad, thoughtful eyes to shine with such fire?


I’m a dreamer; I have so little real life that I regard such moments as this one, now, to be so rare that I can’t help repeating these moments in my dreams.


Listen: you tell it splendidly, but could you tell it somehow less splendidly? Otherwise, you talk as though you were reading from a book.’


now in my head thousands of valves have opened and I must set loose this river of words, or I will choke to death.


he desires nothing, because he is above desire, because he has everything, because he is sated, because he himself is the artist of his life and he creates it for himself every hour to suit his latest whim.


How quickly do the years fly by! And again you ask yourself: What have you done with your years? Where have you buried your best days? Did you live or not?


You know, we thank some people for merely living at the same time as we do. I thank you for the fact that I met you, that I will remember you for all my life!’


My God! A whole minute of bliss! Is that really so little for the whole of a man’s life?


